start question
retirement-plans
Which Retirement Plan Is Best For Small Business ?
The best retirement plan for a small business depends on many factors , including the profitability of the company , its future outlook , the liquidity of its assets , and the amount of funds available to be invested for future use . An experienced financial planner will be the ideal person to discuss and review your options , and make a recommendation that will provide future retirement income .
Which retirement plan is best for small business ? Personally , I like the SIMPLE retirement plan for use with small business . Why ? because it 's SIMPLE ! This IRS created plan is one of the most inexpensive plans out there for a small business . For the business owner the rules are simple and clear . NO testing , no ERISA planmath nonsense , no per head fees for all employees -LRB- including those that do n't participate -RRB- , in other words if you follow the IRS guidelines you save about $ 3k to $ 5k a year in administration fees . A simple involves matching -LRB- 3 % a minimum of 3 out of every 5 years or 1 % for those two years -RRB- employees who participate in the plan . While this may seem like a lot of moneyfor amatch . Think of it this way . You are rewarding your employees who stay with you , rather than a bunch of guys downtown who administer plans . Look closer into these retirement plans . They are easy to establish , easy to administer and extremely inexpensive to run .
A business owner uses a business to convert their human capital -LRB- skills , energy and time -RRB- into a stream of income . However converting that business into a stream of retirement income is a different issue . When a business owner wishes to retire they remove from the business one of its greatest assetsthemselves ! There are a couple of options facing the business owner to use a business to generate retirement income . The first option is to sell the physical assets of the business for the best price possible and close the business . Under the best circumstances this approach will yield a percentage of the value of the assets and generates nothing from the good will of the business . However , this approach will free the business owner from all responsibility for the business and they can invest their time as they wish , free from the concerns of the business . A second option is to sell the business as a going concern . Selling a business is complicated . Whoever buys the business expects that the business will pay for itself . People dont buy a business on a whim . Unless the potential buyer of the business can secure outside financing -LRB- which is quite unusual -RRB- the business owner is actually going to become the banker for the people buying the business . The result is that a business owner will likely fail to realize the full value of the business . In most small businesses it is the personality of the owner that makes the business successful . When that owner retires the greatest asset of the firm has left as well . Even your best employee can not replace you . So now the business owner is the banker for a company that is probably going to be less successful and that will not generate much retirement income . Many sole-proprietors have poured all their profits into the company . When they want to retire they find that they have invested in little else . Since it is expensive and complicated to establish a retirement plan for the employees the entrepreneur forgets to set aside money for his own retirement . If the business owner establishes a retirement plan , that plan might reduce the value of the business because of its long term obligations . Often successor management fails . Making a success of a small business isnt easy . If successor management fails owing the original business owner money , that business owners retirement income is jeopardized or worse yet , the former owner might have to come back into the business at a time when it is inconvenient and perhaps damaging to their health . An entrepreneur can accumulate money for his own retirement by setting aside funds early in the business development . This is really difficult when the business is screaming for more cash . However , setting up a pension plan or other savings plan is crucial in order to have money on which to retire . Grooming successor management can be expensive and difficult but it is the only way to prepare a stable person with the capacity to purchase the firm . There needs to be a direct transfer of the face of the company from the original owner to the successor . The bookkeeper may be great but he is unlikely to lead a company into success when high personal contact is required . A business owner might consider selling the physical assets of the business , and also negotiate a contract that in exchange for a fee for a period of time at a stipulated rate the original owner will provide consulting for the successor . Then rather than paying a debt which is not deductible the successor is paying wages or a fee and that is deductible . The original business owner is receiving income rather than interest and payment of a debt . A business may have limited value when it comes time to retire . Plan for your retirement now , while you can .
what does Simple retirement plan mean ? It means that someone is using a boilerplate retirement plan created by the IRS to provide a retirement program for a small business . I love Simples as their name says it all . A Simple is a straight forward plan design with only a few requirements to comply with to have the plan . The best part for a small business owner is it costs next to nothing to provide . There is no testing of the plan which costs money . Just a nominal per head fee of active participants . The employer does n't pay fees for testing employees and accounting for employees who are n't in the plan . For a small business a Simple is a great choice for putting a retirement plan together for employees .
Which retirement plan is best for small business ? Personally , I like the SIMPLE retirement plan for use with small business . Why ? because it 's SIMPLE ! This IRS created plan is one of the most inexpensive plans out there for a small business . For the business owner the rules are simple and clear . NO testing , no ERISA planmath nonsense , no per head fees for all employees -LRB- including those that do n't participate -RRB- , in other words if you follow the IRS guidelines you save about $ 3k to $ 5k a year in administration fees . A simple involves matching -LRB- 3 % a minimum of 3 out of every 5 years or 1 % for those two years -RRB- employees who participate in the plan . While this may seem like a lot of moneyfor amatch . Think of it this way . You are rewarding your employees who stay with you , rather than a bunch of guys downtown who administer plans . Look closer into these retirement plans . They are easy to establish , easy to administer and extremely inexpensive to run .
what is a SIMPLE retirement plan ? A Simple is an inexpensive opportunity for a small business to have a retirement plan that does n't break the bank in advisor fees . A Simple plan is an IRS approved plan with only a few steps to follow so expensive testing and record keeping are n't necessary . For any small business who are considering a retirement plan to offer , this should be right on top as it does provide a great platform for a business who would rather use it 's money to put towards employees retirements rather than third party administers plans .
Technically no person or employer is required to provide health insurance under ObamaCare . In other words it is not a criminal offense you could be jailed for . ObamaCare uses a mixture of tax penalties , tax credits and subsidies to strongly motivate individuals and employers to provide health insurance either for themselves or , if you are an employer , for your employees . Small businesses with 2 to 49 employees are subject to no tax penalties for not providing health insurance for their employees . Depending upon the average income level of their workforce there is even a tax credit available to incentivize small employers to provide health insurance . In practical terms only a small percentage of small businesses have taken advantage of this credit . However , small businesses are also the first businesses to have theirhealth insuranceplans directly impacted by the requirements of ObamaCare for what is deemed an acceptable benefit plan design -LRB- deductible levels , services covered , removal of pre-existing condition exclusions , etc. -RRB- and this is leading to substantial rate increases for many small businesses or deterring somesmall businesses who were considering beginning to offer health insurance to their employees from doing so . Beginning in 2015 employers with 100 + full time employees will be subject to a tax penalty of $ 2000 per employee if they offer no health insurance to their employees or a tax penalty of $ 3000 per employee who enrolls in the government marketplace and receives a tax subsidy due to the employer 's coverage being deemed unaffordable by the law 's standards . While these tax penalties appearmeaningful at first glance , they are really substantially less than it costs most large employers to provide health insurance currently to their employees . As such , it is debatable as to how much of an incentive the law will really be for large employers who do not currently provide health insurance to their employees to do so in the future and perversely it will be cheaper for most large employers to pay the tax penalty than to pay for health insurance for their employees . In 2016 the penalties and requirements I described above will be applied to employers in the 50 to 99 employee group size segment .
No , statistically around 99 % large companies in the US -LRB- 200 + employees -RRB- offer health benefits , about 96 % of medium companies -LRB- 50-199 employees -RRB- offer health benefits , and about 92 % of small companies -LRB- < 49 employees -RRB- offer health benefits . There may be a significant impact on the small employer statistics as state and federal exchanges become available . However I can confidently say that any such statistical shift in the small employer health benefits market will most likely be a short term -LRB- perhaps 3-5 year -RRB- variation that will in time reflect a very small impact in the % of small businesses offering health benefits . The complex structuring options and technical details will render the small business exchanges as effective at delivering optimal results as online tax software is in helping someone who is not well versed in accounting manage pay-roll and state/federal tax obligations/deductions . Also the businesses who do not provide meaningful benefit programs to their employees will find it hard to compete with the other companies who are able to leverage such programs to provide them with a distinct competitive advantage . That being said the exchanges will revolutionize the marketplace of individual health insurance policies .
Due to how fluid and dynamic the small business world is you will never be able to get a perfectly accurate figure on how many small businesses offer health insurance to their employees . However , studies over the last few years have show a slow but steady decline in the percentage of small businesses who offer group health insurance to their employees . In 2013 we witnessed the first time that the estimated percentage of small businesses offering group health insurance fell below the 50 % level , coming in at a little over 49 % . It is projected that this level will decrease somewhat further -LRB- probably mid-40 % range -RRB- when 2014 statistics can be compiled .
Which retirement plan is right for your small business depends on what you what your objectives are and the resources you are willing to commit . Retirement plans for all employees ? Key employees only ? In Canada , if you choose a group RRSP or a defined contribution pension plan , the company can determine the amount of contribution . The amount of the retirement income value or pension depends on investment growth . If you choose a defined benefit pension plan , the the company guarantees the amount of the retirement income and the amount of contribution is unknown . In that case the risk to the company increases . There are a number of solutions available depending on your objectives . If you would like to work with a local Retirement Planner , you could start with a Google search . For example if you search for : retirement planner Halifax or retirement planning Halifax , my name along with several others will come up . You can use the same method to find Retirement Planners in your community . If you have further questions , or feel that I could be of assistance , please do not hesitate to contact me .
What factors to consider when creating a retirement plan ? COST . Different plans have different costs associated with the operation of a plan . Administrative cost and fees can be greater than the cost of matching for some small business plans . A business owner has to look at a variety of options in plan design to keep the administrative costs low and money spent towards providinga plan , goes towards the employees the employer actually wants to reward . Most companies have set aside funds to provide for administrative costs and matching for their retirement plans . The thing is the higher your administration costs , the less money an employer has to give to the employees of the business . There are many plan choices out there to choose from . I would suggest finding a plan that allows you to reward the people who work for you , not so much for the people that bill you -LRB- plan administrators -RRB- .
What retirement plan is best for small business ? In my opinion I feel SIMPLE plans offer a great value to small business employers who want to set up a qualified plan that is easy to install , easy to account for and simply easy to maintain . What 's that like three `` easys '' and we 're talking qualified plans ? That should sell anybody to at least look at the simple as an option .
No . The employer mandate provisions of the Affordable Care Act -LRB- ObamaCare -RRB- apply to employers with 50 or more full-time/full-time equivalent employees . So , if your company has 20 full time employees and 6 part-time employees that probably translates into the equivalent of 23 full time employees and places you well below the threshold where you have to provide employee health insurance or be subject to the employer mandate tax penalty . If you need to attract and retain quality employees and reduce turnover then it may well be in your self interest as a small business to offer group health insurance to your employees . However , with the introduction of the Affordable Care Act 's health insurance marketplaces and premium tax subsidies to help persons between 100 % and 400 % of the Federal Poverty Level purchase individual health insurance the small business owner 's decision in this regard is more complicated now . If your workforce is largely lower income and you are asking or would be asking your employees to pay a significant portion of the cost of group health insurance it is possible you are actually doing your employees and their dependents a disservice by providing group health insurance as this effectively blocks them from purchasing subsidized individual health insurance in the government health insurance marketplaces . There is some analysis required and business philosophy decisions to be made by the small business owner in making the decision as to whether offering group health insurance is the best course of action in todays environment . You should seek out the services of an experienced health insurance broker who is well educated on the Affordable Care Act to help you make this decision . I am a 30 year industry veteran and Chartered Benefit Consultant , if I can be of assistance to you in this matter please feel free to contact me .
There are still too many variables to provide you a definitive answer . The state or states your workforce is located in , the size of your small business -LRB- less than 50 or greater than 50 employees ? -RRB- , the ages of your employees/spouses/dependent children to be covered , the number of dependent children to be covered , perhaps tobacco usage , plus factors such as health plan design all vary from group to group but are critical features defining fully insured health insurance rates in ObamaCare compliant plan designs . Speaking in very generic terms based upon marketplace quoting as of July 2014 , I would estimate unit cost ranges for small group plans -LRB- 2 to 49 employees -RRB- on a composite rated basis to generally fall within the following ranges : Employee Only : $ 250 to $ 425 Median : $ 325 Spousal Unit : $ 280 to $ 500 Median : $ 395 Per Child Unit -LRB- 3 max -RRB- $ 85 to $ 175Median : $ 120 -LRB- Note : dependent children age 21 to 26 charged separate young adult rate -RRB- This is based onno exhaustive analysis , just from what I have seen and gathered from my peers here in the mid-south . If someone were to give me the vague `` what would health insurance costs be for my small business '' questionto dosome business cost projections these would be reasonable ranges to expect to work within and approximate average costs per covered unit to experience at this time .
I presume that you are not eligible for Medicare for some reason . You might investigate individual health insurance though with the open enrollment season having concluded on February 15th you would have to have a `` Change of Life Status '' event occur or qualify under the provisions of the upcoming special election period beginning March 15th -LRB- this is for people who were uninsured in 2014 and have just figured out they are going to have to pay the individual mandate tax penalty and that they would be subject to the individual tax mandate penalty for the 2015 tax year -RRB- . If you were to qualify you would have to be prepared to pay a pretty high monthly premium . If you have a business or have a spouse that has a business and some employees you might consider a group health plan . I recently wrote a small group where a man about your age had emigrated from Europe because he had married an American lady about 20 years younger than him and they had a small business with a couple of other employees . that man is now covered as his spouse 's dependent under their small group plan .
Employer Sponsored Retirement Plan is generally an ERISA qualified plan that a business sponsors for their employees with employee tax deductible contributions and sometimes an employer contribution match . An example of such a plan is the popular 401k retirement plan offered by many corporations and small businesses alike .
I would recommend two things : 1 -RRB- talk to your Insurance Professional about the specific terms and conditions of your home and auto policies . Some companies may allow very small business type risks as incidental based upon the type of business and the revenue generated . For example , a homeowners liability may cover a small lawn mowing business your son may have cutting a few lawns in the neighborhood , but may not cover an animal boarding operation . Likewise a personal auto policy may not provide any coverage at all for any business activity . 2 -RRB- talk to your attorney as an additional trusted advisor about the potential legal liability exposures that such a venture may bring . Remember too a very important principal : insurance only provides protection , it does not limit liability .
Unlike omst parts of the Affordable Care Act , if you are employed by a business with less than 50 full time employees , your employer has the option of offering coverage , but not is not mandated to do so . The health law does not require businesses with fewer than 50 employees to offer health insurance to their workers . Small Employers wanting to offer coverage to employees may do so using the SHOP exchange , which is meant to help small business owners find affordable coverage . The government offers certainincentives in the form oftax credits and deductions to encourage employers with fewer than 25 employees who set up coverage through SHOP and help pay for it . Currently in Alabama , the only way to sign up for a SHOP plan is to go see an agent , broker or insurance company and fill out the paperwork . Online enrollment is scheduled to be available during next fall 's open enrollment period , starting November 15 , 2014 .
Unlike omst parts of the Affordable Care Act , if you are employed by a business with less than 50 full time employees , your employer has the option of offering coverage , but not is not mandated to do so . The health law does not require businesses with fewer than 50 employees to offer health insurance to their workers . Small Employers wanting to offer coverage to employees may do so using the SHOP exchange , which is meant to help small business owners find affordable coverage . The government offers certainincentives in the form oftax credits and deductions to encourage employers with fewer than 25 employees who set up coverage through SHOP and help pay for it . Currently in Georgia , the only way to sign up for a SHOP plan is to go see an agent , broker or insurance company and fill out the paperwork . Online enrollment is scheduled to be available during next fall 's open enrollment period , starting November 15 , 2014 .
After January 1 , 2014 individual health and small group -LRB- 2 to 50 employees -RRB- healthinsurance is calculated on a community rated basis . Essentially a rate table is established for each insurance product with a corresponding rate amount for each year of age for a person enrolled . There is a rate for someone at age 25 , and slightly different rate for age 26 and so on for each year of age . For carriers applying the pure age rating approach it is a matter of telling an individual your rate at this age is `` X '' amount of dollars , for someone covering dependents it is a process of adding the rate for the subscriber , their spouse and/or dependent children -LRB- up to a maximum of 3 dependent children -RRB- for their various ages and that it the total rate for the individual plus dependents . Dependent children over age 21 are added to the cost as an adult . This is the individual insurance carriers and most small group carriers are now calculating their rates . As you might guess , for small businesses this can result in employees with the same level of enrollment coverage -LRB- e.g. - Employee Only -RRB- having different rates which is a headache from an accounting and employer contribution calculation perspective . Some small group carriers do the age calculation that I have described earlier , divide the total by the amount of enrollees in each coverage class -LRB- e.g. - Employee Only , Employee + Spouse , Family -RRB- and come up with a composite rate that yields a uniform rate for each level of enrollment . How the insurance carrier has filed their products with your state insurance commission will determine which style of rates you see from different insurance carriers . However , the underlying rate methodology is the same .
end question
start question
renters-insurance
Where Can I Find Renters Insurance ?
To find renters insurance look no further than your trusted insurance agent . If you dont have an agent , get recommendations from friends , colleagues and neighbors . An agent should listen to you , offer sound financial advice , and communicate clearly with you and the insurance company . The most important thing that the agent will do is advise you on appropriate limits . If your policy doesnt meet your expectations when there is a claim , nothing else matters .
Yes , Yes & Yes !!! Although Renters Insurance is designed to protect the Personal Belongings of the Renter , the policy also includes Personal Liability Coverage . There have been endless numbers of cases in Small Claims Court where there are issues between Landlords and Renters following damage to rental units . With the presence of a Renters Insurance Policy , the insurance company will investigate the claim and find if in fact the renter 's negligence caused the loss ; if so , the damage repairs will be covered by the tenant 's personal liability section of the Renters Insurance Policy . In some States , the Renters Insurance Policy is a requirement under the conditions of the standard rental agreement ; however , it is prudent of Landlords to require Renters Insurance . As a rhetorical question : ` Would you wish to rent your property to a tenant not concerned with insuring their own belongings ? ' Renters Insurance is very inexpensive and contrary to common belief , you do n't have to speak to a salesperson to obtain a quote and buy the insurance . In many States , the minimum coverage is $ 10,000 or $ 15,000 of Personal Property and the policy automatically comes with $ 100,000 of Personal Liability . Depending on your selected deductible , the premium may be as low as $ 100 per year . If you are responsibly cautious only about the liability issue , we would recommend selecting the highest deductible since this will generate the lowest premium ; the deductible does n't apply to the liability section . For an online free quote and online platform to buy renters insurance online , you may use : WEBSITELINK This link will allow you to get an online quote , select the coverage and deductible you desire and issue the policy online . For further details or to review your present coverage , you may contact a licensed company representative toll-free at : 877-931-3368 .
If your lease agreement has a clause requiring Renters Insurance , yes , the Landlord may enforce the clause thereby forcing you to buy Renters Insurance or being in breach of the contract . Renters Insurance is a valuable coverage ; many renters simply deny the issue due to the small cost of coverage . In our many years in business , we have seen a variety of claims ; the following is just a short synopsis of the necessary protection . Renters Insurance includes Personal Property Coverage and Personal Liability Insurance . Liability Insurance being the more important coverage as this is where a legal action against the renter could cause undue hardship . If a fire or water damage claim is caused by the renter , the renter would be negligent and therefore liable for the damage caused . Although the property may be insured , the insurance carrier of the Landlord would subrogate and may bring legal action against the tenant . Personal Property coverage would provide protection against theft , fire and water damage to the contents of the renter . The Landlord 's insurance does not cover the tenant 's property in any way ; neither does it allow for legal protection of the tenant . Should a tenant not be interested in this valuable protection , we recommend purchasing the minimum available personal property coverage with the minimum liability protection of $ 100,000 . This coverage would cost in the range of $ 100 - $ 300 per year depending on the region of the country and the specific insurance carrier underwriting the risk . You may obtain a Renters Insurance quote online at : WEBSITELINK
What 's the importance of Renters Insurance ? If you 're renting a house , condo , or an apartment , the last thing you 're thinking about is renters insurance . Since you do n't own the building , the landlord is covered , and you do n't value your personal belongings to really add up , what 's the point ? What would you do if : The building or home catches fire and all your personal contents are destroyed . Now , all your belongings are gone and you do n't have a place to sleep . Your home or apartment is burglarized ; you 've lost your laptop , mobile phone , entertainment system and flat screen TV . How about your more modern technology items such as a Tablet , iPhone , iPod etc. . . A visitor or service provider trips and falls in your home or apartment and decides to sue you for his injuries . Whether or not it is your fault , a renter must replace his or her personal items . If there is a law suit , the renter will have to seek a defense attorney even if there is clearly no fault . How much would it cost to replace your clothes , laptop , and furniture . Here are some reasons to have renters insurance : BURGLARY . You may think your apartment is `` secure '' ! Rental units are prime targets for theft and burglars are getting smarter about how to break into apartments and rental homes ; most of them do not have a security system and are not insured . FIRE OR SMOKE DAMAGE . The landlord 's insurance wo n't replace your furniture and personal belongings . Renters insurance will cover items damaged by fire , smoke , and other situations . WATER DAMAGE . Renters insurance may cover items caused by water damage . Additional living expenses . If your unit is damaged by water or fire , you 'll likely need to find another place to live whether short or long term . Most policies include coverage for hotel expenses or assistance to find an alternate rental unit if you ca n't live in your rental unit . LIABILITY INSURANCE . Renters insurance can cover injury to another person on your property . It can also include medical payments coverage that pays for expenses of guests . Inexpensive . Renters insurance is very inexpensive if not relatively cheap ! Higher deductibles can decrease the cost of insurance . Renters insurance is a must if not required by your landlord and can save you thousands of dollars , all for a lot less than you might think . Get a free quote and get covered today online by visiting WEBSITELINK
Rates for renters insurance depend upon a few factors . Where your apartment is located , how much personal property you are insuring and what liability rates you requested . For example , in Michigan , where I live I can get renters insurance covering $ 30,000 of personal property with $ 300,000 in liability coverage for about $ 200/year . The point is renters insurance is very affordable . I hope this helps .
There are very few companies that write non-related individuals on the same renter 's policy . This status of delineating coverage is called `` Named Insured . '' The drawback to these policies is that a claim check would be made payable to ALL named insureds ; so if only your stuff was stolen from your vehicle or otherwise damaged , your roommate would also need to sign off on the check before you can cash it . The other drawback is that , in the event of a claim , it goes on the personal history of all named insureds . So if your roommate has a claim , it can penalize YOU for the next 3 to 7 years -LRB- depending on company -RRB- even if you guys separate households . Even if a roommate has no personal property -LRB- i.e. contents -RRB- , a critical component of renter 's insurance is liability . Ideally , each roommate should have renter 's insurance , so that if a guest is hurt on premises , the lawsuit could be filed against the responsible person . Most renter 's policies also include Personal Injury coverage under the liability , but some do not . Personal Injury covers damages to a third party that you may be legally liable for , but where the injured party suffered no physical injuries . The most prevalent claim currently is slander/libel from social media . Refer supra to what I indicated about claim history . Do you really want to be responsible for your roommate 's posts online ? I know I do not . I currently rent myself as it is a better deal where I live than ownership . I do have a roommate , and we each have our own separate policies .
Renters Insurance covers the Personal Property of the Insured Tenant , offers Loss of Use for a covered hazard and provides Personal Liability for the Insured Tenant and resident family . The Renters Insurance Policy is commonly known as a Form HO4 and is available in all States . Renters Insurance is mandatory in a few States where the Government has been faced with an unusually high number of law suits thus inundating the legal system ; in other States , you will find some Landlords require tenants to purchase the insurance to provide a layer of protection for the possible negligent acts of a tenant causing property damage to the building , property of other tenants or inadvertent bodily injury to others . The possession of Renters Insurance is a display of genuine responsibility for one 's personal property and protection for others . Renters Insurance Online is available online in multiple States at the following link : WEBSITELINK In order to produce a lower premium , it is recommended only to purchase the minimum amount of Personal Contents coverage to sufficiently replace the personal property of the insured and to select a high deductible . This combination will generate a comparatively lower premium ; renters insurance is written for an annual term and is fairly inexpensive .
Where we may find it difficult to define ` Best ' Renters Insurance ; we believe the best renters insurance would be the most comprehensive coverage for a competitive premium rate . We believe in most States , this coverage lies in the hands of Renters Insurance Online available through Stillwater Insurance Group . We have an Online Link for consumers to obtain a quote , choose options and purchase the insurance policy online . If the definition of ` Best ' is ` Cheapest ' ; the easiest method to generate a Cheap Renters Insurance quote is to select a low amount of coverage with a high deductible . We provide an online format to obtain a quote and buy renters insurance online in multiple States at : WEBSITELINK
Renter 's dwelling insurance or rental dwelling insurance ? Renters insurance , or dwelling insurance ? There are two directions to travel on this question . First , renters insurance is coverage for a non-owner occupant of an apartment or residential dwelling . We often use the term `` tenant '' or `` renter '' to describe this person or family . Since the tenant does n't own the structures the primary objective under a tenant or renters policy is to cover their personal property , additional living expenses after a loss we insure , and personal liability . A Renters Insurance Policy -LRB- Or Tenant Insurance Policy -RRB- is one of the various forms of Homeowner Insurance that has been modified to reflect the unique needs of a non-owner occupant of residential property . Rental dwelling insurance is coverage purchased by the owner of the residential dwelling to protect their interest in an apartment or dwelling occupied by someone else . It is n't required that the property be non-owner occupied under such dwelling policies , but typically , this is the case since most homeowners insurance policies afford a much better coverage and premium value than a dwelling policy . Dwelling policies can be used in a number of circumstances from those where the owner occupies the property , to those where a non-owner occupant resides in the home . A dwelling type policy is frequently used to provide coverage for a dwelling in the `` course of construction '' or when it is undergoing significant renovation . When used in this way it is not uncommon for the policy to be referred to as `` builders risk '' insurance . This type of policy is sold to the owners of property and not to builders . Builders can obtain coverage for their exposures to loss in these cases from a commercial liability and property policy they maintain for their operations . The builder would have only a financial interest in the property to the extent of their unpaid work and material so some form of policy coverage or endorsement that extends the value of property and services they have installed in such a dwelling would be the best method of providing coverage . After all , we always have to be concerned with the `` insurable interest '' and the only one with a true interest to the totality of loss would be the property owner and not a builder or contractor .
How a renters policy is rated is no different than how any other homeowners policy is rented . There are several factors that go into the rating mechanism : Where you live - how far to the nearest fire station and fire hydrant The construction of the building - is it a brick building or a frame building -LRB- which do you think burns easier ? -RRB- Safety features - smoke alarms , deadbolt locks , fire/burglar alarms , sprinklers Your personal Property limit -LRB- your stuff -RRB- - the higher the values , the higher the premium Your personal Liability Limit - again , higher limits , higher premium Personal circumstances - age , credit score , claims history Renters insurance is really just a homeowners policy without building coverage . It 's coverage for you and your stuff . The cost of renters insurance is usually much lower than a homeowners policy because a lot of the premium is generated by the cost of the building . Some guidelines to get the right renters coverage . Get a good handle on what it would cost to replace your stuff . A good agent can help or you can go to Allstate 's website and use their tool -LRB- no , I 'm not an Allstate agent , I just like their tool -RRB- . Secondly , choose a higher liability limit . I usually quote at least $ 300,000 but prefer $ 500,000 or more . The cost is very negligible . Be smart , find an agent you can trust and take their advice . If you do have a claim , you 'll be happy you did .
You will find renters insurance to be very inexpensive . With most companies renter insurance covering approximately $ 5,000 to $ 10,000 in personal contents and $ 300,000 in personal liability to be approximately $ 150 to $ 300 dollars a year which is equivalent to about $ 12.50 to $ 25 dollars a month . Depending on the carrier this could vary . By writing a renters policy not only are you getting coverage for your personal belongings but you are also getting personal liability coverage . Some companies also include additional coverage such as host liquor liability , which you would need to rent halls for events like a wedding or a birthday . You may also be able to schedule things such as your cell phone which may or may not be cheaper then purchasing the coverage from your cell phone carrier . You will find that if you purchase your renters policy through the same carrier as your auto insurance that the discount you receive on your auto insurance will more than pay for your renters policy . Multi-policy discounts with some companies can range from 5 % -20 % or possibly more , which can save you hundreds on your auto insurance . So be sure to talk to your insurance agent about writing a renters policy and what discounts are available .
There are many ways to purchase renters insurance online . Most major insurance companies will allow you to purchase directly thorugh their websites . There are also websites that give you access to many different companies at once . However , there are some things that concern me about purchasing insurance online . As a former agent for a top 3 insurance company , I would become the `` agent '' for individuals who had purchased their own insurance online . I consistently found problems and lack of coverage when I recevied these clients . My recommendation is to reach out to a local independent agent and tell them you are looking for renters insurance . This will give you the opportunity to build a relationship with that person and have them make recommendations for certain coverages . There are many additional coverages that are available on renters policies from water back-up , to identity theft coverage , and specific coverage for jewelry , collectibles , music equipment , etc. . It is best to discuss these options with a professional so you know exatly what is covered and how it is covered . While you can quickly purchase renters insurance online , you may leave yourself with gaps in coverage , which can become costly in the event of a claim . The process is not that much slower within an agency -LRB- we frequently put polices in place the same day -RRB- and you can be confident that you have the proper coverages . If you do not feel comfortable with the agent you are in contact with , ask friends and family who they work with and find someone you truly trust . Even though you are purchasing a fairly inexpensive renters policy , take your time to find the right solution for you . In the unfortunate event of a claim , you will be happy that you did .
Homeowners Insurance is usually associated with the owner of the dwelling ; whereas Renters Insurance is specifically intended for the non-owner occupant of the dwelling . Renters Insurance is intended to provide Personal Property Coverage and Personal Liability Coverage for the tenant of a home . In a tenant occupied situation , the owner of the dwelling will usually carry Landlords Protection Coverage for the dwelling which does not offer any protection to the tenant . The tenant should purchase his/her own Renters Insurance . This is coverage is very inexpensive and is well worth it ; there have been many instances where a property owner has brought legal action against a tenant for negligence leading to a fire or other type of claim ; the Renters Insurance provides Personal Liability Insurance for the tenant which may provide defense in such an occurrence . For a renters quote in California , Arizona or Nevada , you may click on : WEBSITELINK For all other States , you should find a licensed representative in your State for a quote .
I would recommend contacting USAA directly to find out about your current policy coverages . Usually there are 3 main parts to your renters insurance coverage : 1 . Personal property coverage . Think of everything you own . Now , try to assign a dollar amount to all of those belongings . Pretty mind-boggling , is n't it ? A renters insurance policy offers you coverage for the theft , loss or destruction of your personal belongings in the event of a fire , storm or other covered peril . This can help you replace the items you use on a day-to-day basis , from your clothing to your appliances to your furnitureas well as your more expensive items . If you 're a die-hard jewelry collector or an audiophile with tens of thousands of dollars ' worth of pricey sound equipment , you can even take out extended coverage that provides you with higher limits , sometimes called floater insurance or Scheduled Personal Property coverage . This extra coverage may increase your deductibles , but will certainly be worth having to make sure you have enough coverage for your pricey items . Having a renters insurance policy can even cover your personal belongings when they 're not inside your homelike if you take your laptop with you on a trip and it is damaged or stolen . 2 . Liability coverage . Life is risk , but that does n't mean you have to dig deep into your pockets or drain your savings account every time something goes wrong . The liability insurance that comes as a part of your standard renters insurance policy can help protect you if you are sued by a guest injured in your home . Say someone comes over to your house and trips down your stairs , injuring themselves seriously enough to warrant medical attention . If you are found responsible for the accident , your renters insurance liability coverage can help pay for your legal expenses and their medical bills and other damages . When buying renters insurance , it pays to think long and hard about having enough coverage to guard against any eventuality . Liability coverage can even pay for damages caused accidentally by you or your family members . For example , if your child accidentally throws a baseball through your neighbor 's living room window , your liability insurance plan could cover the damages . 3 . Additional living expenses . People rarely think about where they 'd go or how they 'd pay for it if a fire or disaster were to render their rental home unlivable . With a renters insurance policy , you can rest easily because this coverage will help pay for your temporary living expenses . This can include things like hotel bills to restaurants to other living expenses you normally would n't incur . With a renters insurance policy , you do n't have to worry that a damaged roof will force you to share a house with your in-laws . For that alone , it 's a priceless investment .
I do not see very many disadvantages to renters insurance . Lets look at the coverage renters insurance provides , and then we can talk about what it does not cover . Renters insurance is designed to cover your personal property , protect you if you are sued , and pay medical bills if someone is injured on your property . Most people get upset when their insurance does not cover something . Sometimes people file claims to pay their landlord for clean up their deposit did not cover -LRB- this is not covered -RRB- . Some agents use renters insurance as an ad on coverage and they choose how much coverage without consulting your need . If you have renters insurance and only have $ 10k of coverage when you needed more you will not be paid more than the $ 10k A common deductible on renters insurance policies is $ 500 , and often smaller theft claims do not exceed the deductible . I see this a lot in personal items stolen out of vehicles . I think the advantages of having renters insurance far out way not having it . People in our society sue for a lot of different things , and protecting your self from being sued for Bodily Injury or Property Damage out side of your Auto is an essential part of creating a sound financial plan . Just make sure you have the proper coverage before you buy .
A Landlord can require Renters Insurance in any State as a condition of the Lease Agreement . Renters Insurance is an increasingly more valuable commodity for both home owners and renters in a very litigious society . Renters Insurance provides the Landlord peace of mind in the event a claim occurs as the result of the tenant 's negligence ; the home owner will not be negatively impacted by their insurance . Many Landlords require the Tenant to list the Landlord as an ` Additional Insured ' on the Renters Insurance Policy this will insure the Landlord receives a copy of all correspondence including cancellation notices and renewal notices . Renters Insurance provides coverage for the tenant 's Personal Property as well as offering Personal Liability coverage which is the specific section in the interest of the Landlord . Without this important coverage , legal actions are more damaging and cumbersome for all parties concerned . There are a few States that have required all tenants in the State to purchase Renters Insurance and the requirement is a compulsory section of the Standard Lease Agreement which is signed by both the Landlords and Tenants . States have taken this action due to an overwhelming load of small claims cases burdening the Court System . Renters Insurance is an inexpensive form of security which all responsible tenants should wish to have ; in many localities , a policy can be purchased for as little as $ 8.00 per month . For a Renters Insurance quote , there is an available link to obtain your quote and purchase the policy online : WEBSITELINK In order to produce the lowest rate , you will need to select the minimum amount of Personal Property Coverage available to cover all your possessions , select the minimum required Personal Liability Limit , and select the maximum available Deductible . The deductible does n't apply to the Personal Liability section , so if this is the only reason that you are buying the policy , the maximum deductible should be purchased to obtain the lowest premium .
I would suggest contacting your local agent to go over your exact policy coverages . Typically a renters insurance policy will cover : 1 . Personal property coverage . Think of everything you own . Now , try to assign a dollar amount to all of those belongings . Pretty mind-boggling , is n't it ? A renters insurance policy offers you coverage for the theft , loss or destruction of your personal belongings in the event of a fire , storm or other covered peril . This can help you replace the items you use on a day-to-day basis , from your clothing to your appliances to your furnitureas well as your more expensive items . If you 're a die-hard jewelry collector or an audiophile with tens of thousands of dollars ' worth of pricey sound equipment , you can even take out extended coverage that provides you with higher limits , sometimes called floater insurance or Scheduled Personal Property coverage . This extra coverage may increase your deductibles , but will certainly be worth having to make sure you have enough coverage for your pricey items . Having a renters insurance policy can even cover your personal belongings when they 're not inside your homelike if you take your laptop with you on a trip and it is damaged or stolen . 2 . Liability coverage . Life is risk , but that does n't mean you have to dig deep into your pockets or drain your savings account every time something goes wrong . The liability insurance that comes as a part of your standard renters insurance policy can help protect you if you are sued by a guest injured in your home . Say someone comes over to your house and trips down your stairs , injuring themselves seriously enough to warrant medical attention . If you are found responsible for the accident , your renters insurance liability coverage can help pay for your legal expenses and their medical bills and other damages . When buying renters insurance , it pays to think long and hard about having enough coverage to guard against any eventuality . Liability coverage can even pay for damages caused accidentally by you or your family members . For example , if your child accidentally throws a baseball through your neighbor 's living room window , your liability insurance plan could cover the damages . 3 . Additional living expenses . People rarely think about where they 'd go or how they 'd pay for it if a fire or disaster were to render their rental home unlivable . With a renters insurance policy , you can rest easily because this coverage will help pay for your temporary living expenses . This can include things like hotel bills to restaurants to other living expenses you normally would n't incur . With a renters insurance policy , you do n't have to worry that a damaged roof will force you to share a house with your in-laws . For that alone , it 's a priceless investment . Thanks for asking !
Asking the question why should Renters get Renters insurance is the same as asking why should anyone get insurance ? The purpose of insurance is to pool together monies to reduce individual financial risk from unforeseen losses . Other than car insurance and now health insurance you do n't have to purchase insurance but I certainly would n't recommend it . Even if you are a millionaire you still need insurance . The more money you have the more money you can lose and the cost of insurance is minimal compared to the financial risk you face . Renters needs renters insurance to protect their belongings and also to provide liability protection for negligent acts . Renters insurance typically costs between $ 100 - $ 200 per year and for this cost you get coverage up to $ 25,000 for personal property and up to $ 300,000 in liability . The real question should be why would n't Renters get Renters insurance .
Renters insurance will carry liability protection for the renter who purchased the policy . Now lets say for example the renter owns a dog and the dog bites his friend . The owner of the dog , in this case the renter will be liable for the dog bite and his renters policy will respond . Now lets say the renter did not have a policy . Although the renter is potentially liable the person who was bit could go after the landlord for recovery since he or she is the owner of the property . The renter having a policy that responds could very well keep the landlord out of the entire claim process . In my opinion all landlords should require their tenants to carry a renters policy .
Most people consider purchasing renter 's insurance to cover their personal belongings - most renter 's policies will pay for the loss of personal property due to theft , vandalism , fire , etc. . However , a renter 's policy can also provide coverage if you are personally liable for injury to another person or damage to their property due to a non-vehicle related incident . In addition , a renter 's policy may also pay for `` loss of use '' due to a covered loss , meaning if you are forced to temporarily relocate due to said loss , there may be coverage for related expenses . Renter 's insurance is typically very affordable . Premiums can vary from one person to another , and some companies may offer better prices than others depending on your location , but I 've seen renter 's policies as low as $ 9 or $ 10/month . Please bear in mind that there are a lot of variables that affect your rate , and you may or may not be able to find renter 's insurance for this kind of price .
end question
start question
renters-insurance
Does Renters Insurance Cover Gifts ?
It may provide some limited coverage that may be subject to your policy deductible . Please rember every policy is different . Read your policy completely to understand the coverage provided and any exclusions that there may be or contact your local agent to have them go over the policy with you .
Renters Insurance covers any personal property or personal property of others in your care , custody , and control from various named perils listed i your policy . If a gift is stolen or is damaged by one of the other perils mentioned it would be covered subject to the deductible in your policy .
As with any asset , ownership of a life insurance policy can be transferred to a new owner either by gift or by sale -LRB- or , in rare cases where the parties are less than careful , a transaction that is deemed part gift & part sale . -RRB- However , there are potential tax consequences which are important to keep in mind . Probably the most important tax trap is making a `` Transfer for Value '' of a life insurance policy . If a policy is sold , either for cash or in exchange for some other valuable consideration , the policy death benefit will fully taxable to the beneficiary unless the transfer qualifies for certain exceptions . The financial cost of having what was intended to be a tax-free death benefit become fully taxable is so high , it is imperative to check with a qualified professional before executing a policy transfer . Other tax implications include potential gift tax on the fair market value of the policy if the transfer is by gift , potential income tax on deferred gains in the policy if the transfer is by sale , and potential income tax on the fair market value of the policy if the transfer is from an employer to an employee .
A Charitable Annuity is a Charitable Gift Annuity , an insurance product used estate planning for those benevolent grantors who have charitable intentions and seek tax advantaged income . It involves a contract between a grantor/donor and a charity . The grantor gifts cash or other assets to an IRS approved nonprofit charity , receives for a partial tax deduction and a lifetime annual income from the charity . When the grantor/donor dies , the charity keeps the gift .
Charitable annuities are traditionally set up by a grantor who gifts a sum of money to a trust established with a charitable organization as the beneficiary . The trustee of the trust then purchases an annuity with the funds and pays the grantor a sum of money based on an amount specified when the gift and trust are established . The grantor receives a tax deduction for the gifted amount and can carry the deduction to future years of the entire deduction reduces income tax liability to zero . Upon the passing of the grantor , any remaining funds in the trust are then given to the charitable organization .
New York Life provides options for exactly this situation . Say you do not want to pay premiums the rest of your life . Or say you want to give a gift to your grandchildren . This is exactly why New York Life , America 's oldest , largest , and highest rated life insurance company , created Custom Whole Life . With New York Life 's Custom Whole Life , you can arrange to pay premiums for a fixed number of years , to continue your policy , or the policy of whomever you are gifting it to , say your grandchildren . After that fixed number of year , the entire Life Insurance Policy will have been paid in full , and paid with a reduced amount of premium dollars ! How does New York Life do this ? The sooner they have the money , the quicker it can be invested by New York Life , building growth and compounding the interest . Yes , the premium for those first few years will be higher than under regular whole life , but it will quickly disappear completely and the policy will be paid in fully , requiring no further premium payments ever from anyone ! This sounds like exactly what you are looking for .
IRS Form 712 is a statement that provides the life insurance value of your life insurance proceeds to the IRS . It is required to completed and turned in when the Insured person or policy owner dies and the death benefit is paid to you , or when a life insurance policy is transferred to you as a gift . It needs to be returned with Form 706 , 706-NA or 709 , the Estate or Gift -LRB- and Generation-Skipping Transfer -RRB- Tax form .
Renters Insurance covers any personal property or personal property of others in your care , custody , and control from various named perils listed i your policy . If a gift is stolen or is damaged by one of the other perils mentioned it would be covered subject to the deductible in your policy .
This is an IRS form used to report life insurance policy values as of the date of death of the insured or policyowner or when a policy if transferred as a gift . It is used in connection with estate and gift return forms when they are filed with the IRS .
Life insurance rebating occurs when life insurance agents pay part of their commission to their clients in exchange for writing a life insurance policy on them . The rebating may also take the form of gifts , trips , or discounts . It is used as a way to provide an incentive for people to buy from them . Life insurance rebating is illegal according to state insurance laws in all but two states , and is considered an unethical way to do business . Fines and penalties are high , so that most life insurance agents shy away from offering any type of gift at all to clients who have placed policies with them , even though small tokens of appreciation are legal in most states .
Getting a child Whole Life Insurance gets them insurance that can be theirs all their lives , regardless of their future health , or whether they even become uninsurable . And at their age , the cost is so low , it makes a perfect gift from a grandparent or certainly their parents . New York Life is advertising their Grand Parent Gifting Program this time of year . It sure beats video games . Gary Lane , Registered Representative , New York Life , 9497972424 . Thank you .
This was once an extremely popular idea . A child can almost always qualify for life insurance , something that might not be true by occupation , avocation or health in the future . The premium will never be lower . It becomes a gift that a parent can pass to the child later in life that is often worth more than the premiums paid . It provides a death benefit in the event of premature death . Many parents prefer a limited payment whole life policy so that all the premiums are paid prior to gifting the policy to the young adult .
There are different costs associated with a life insurance trust . In the case of an irrevocable life insurance trust , there is a cost for establishing it which varies based on the complexity of the situation , your location and other factors . It is usually bundled in with other estate planning services . Estate planning attorneys in your area will give you a ball park estimate but trusts and related planning often start at about $ 2,000 . There are also maintenance costs , especially if a professional trustee is involved . These trusts usually go hand in hand with gifts to the trust to pay premiums and servicing related to the gift e.g. Crummy letters.These costs must be factored in when deciding if the trust should be created . If your situation warrants such a trust , it could be money well spent . Consult with an experienced estate planning attorney .
Great question . The simple answer is Yes . Changing the owner to someone else is the same as giving them a `` gift '' of something that has value - usually considerable value ! Because of this , when you change the owner of the policy to someone else -LRB- including a trust -RRB- , it is considered a gift ... however , sometimes the intent to do this is to avoid inflating the estate value , and to negotiate the estate tax laws . It should be noted that if estate tax considerations are part of desire to change owners , according to current law , if the insured dies within three years of the change in ownership , the value of the life insurance policy will be `` brought back '' into the estate of the original owner and considered as part of the original owner 's estate . So , similar to most questions , the answer is Yes , the owner can be changed , but there are considerations to be taken in each situation .
Whole life policies are well suited for needs that do not diminish over time . Some commonly found uses for whole life are : Family protection : To provide funds to support a surviving spouse and/or minor children , particularly for individuals who start a family later in life ; to pay final bills , such as medical or other estate expenses and federal and state death taxes . Business planning : Whole life insurance is often used for many different business purposes , such as insuring key employees , in split-dollar insurance arrangements , and funding non-qualified deferred compensation plans . Business continuation planning often involves using whole life insurance as a source of funds for buy-sell agreements . Accumulation needs : Some individuals will use the cash value feature of whole life as a way of accumulating funds for specific purposes , such as funding college education , or as a supplemental source of retirement income . Charitable gifts : To provide funds for a gift to charity . Whole life insurance , sometimes called permanent insurance , or ordinary life , is designed to stay in force throughout ones lifetime . As long as the policy owner meets his or her obligations under the policy , the policy remains in force , regardless of any changes in health that may occur . Unlike term insurance , where premium payments generally increase , as the insured gets older -LRB- the chance of death increases with age -RRB- , premiums for most whole life policies remain level . A portion of each premium payment is set aside to earn interest . Over time , a whole life policy will develop cash values . The accumulated cash values form a reserve which enable the insurer to pay a policys full death benefit , while keeping premiums level . During life , many whole life policies have provisions to borrow a portion of the accumulated cash value . If a policy is terminated without the insured dying , there are various surrender options for the cash value available to a policy owner . Steve Savant is a contributor to Back Room Technician , an Advisys Company
In order to determine how much life insurance coverage to get , single persons should start by thinking about what others would need to pay off for them . Life insurance is a fast and easy way to settle bills , and it is especially helpful for survivors to have these ready funds when there is not a spouse to take care of the estate . The bills might be credit card debt , a school loan , utilities until the home is sold , etc. . Next , how much do you want to leave for your funeral or memorial service ? You can pick out cemetery plot , casket , urn , and so many things ahead of time , then have life insurance to pay for it all . What is remaining after expenses can go to the beneficiary ; you do n't have to leave it all to the funeral home . Finally , do you want to leave any funds to special people in your life or to a charity ? Life insurance is a good way to make a small amount of money stretch into a big gift . You may have other things this prompted you to think of , that could be covered by a life insurance policy . But these three - debts , final expenses and gifts - are the main ones that I can see being well served by having a life insurance policy as a single person .
First , while no one likes to contemplate the passing of a young person , death has no respect for age . The cost of a funeral for an 8 year old is n't going to be any different than for an 80 year old . So , reason number 1 would be to protect you and your family from that unexpected expense . Life insurance rates are based upon life expectancy among other factors . Obviously the life expectancy for a normal child is expected to be several more decades which translates into many years for the life insurance company to invest those premium dollars before they eventually pay the death claim -LRB- assuming the policy is kept in force , sadly it 's not unusual for a child to become an adult and take over the policy and discontinue paying the premiums -RRB- . On a more positive note , a properly structured whole life insurance policy builds up cash value . The cash value accumulation of a whole life insurance policy from someone 's childhood until they reach retirement age can amount to a sizable asset depending upon the face value -LRB- death benefit amount -RRB- of the policy . In the ideal scenario you will leave your child with a paid up life insurance policy and a financial asset for their golden years . Decades from now your child probably wo n't remember many Christmas or birthday gifts they received from you but a good whole life insurance policy can truly be the gift that keeps on giving .
To really get an answer , you need to ask yourself ` What happens to my family and beneficiaries if I die tomorrow ? ' . If there are family members and other beneficiaries that depend on you financially , the answer should be clear ; Any death benefit that they receive willnot replace the void from your passing but it will certainly help reduce the burden of any financial obligations that you had been helping to cover , i.e. mortgage , car payments , debt , student loans , living expenses and the list can go on . Further , life insurance can help you leave a legacy or gift for your loved ones that can help them for years to come . And if there are beneficiaries that you would desire to leave money for , you can always name a non-profit or charity as a beneficiary , i.e. Alma matter , favorite charitable organization , museum , zoo , etc. . Insurance proceeds , which are tax-free , can be used to fund education for children and grandchildren , family trip to help heal together after the loss of your life , remove financial uncertainty about a spouse or child 's retirement or an endless list of other possibilities . It is an invaluable gift over and above the sum of money that they could receive . The bottom line is , whatever you can comfortably afford in premiums , will create a larger sum of money that will help change your beneficiaries and loved ones ' lives for the better .
Video Transcript : Hello everyone , I 'm Steve Savant , syndicated financial columnist and host of the weekly online talk show Steve Savant 's Money : The Name of The Game . I 'm answering questions from insurancelibrary.com , and today 's question is : is giving my life insurance policy to a charity a good idea ? Well , first of all , do you have a charity that qualifies as a non profit under the IRS rules ? Second of all , is this a charity that you want to see go into perpetuity ? Third of all , if your contract is existing and you really do n't need it anymore , you do n't need it for yourself , you do n't need it for you beneficiaries , maybe your children or grandchildren , you could gift your policy to the charity . Some people will also write a policy on themselves from day one and have the charity own it . It really depends upon what you 're trying to get done , but if you 're trying to see your organization go into perpetuity and you no longer need an existing contract , this is a really good option for you to look at . A charity , you can gift your life insurance to the charity of your choice , and just make sure that it 's IRS approved . Well , that 's our consumer question for the day . If you have any questions , just submit them to www.insurancelibrary.com .
Of course ! You have the option to put on primary beneficiaries , contingent beneficiaries -LRB- in case the primary predeceases the insured -RRB- , and even tertiary beneficiaries if you 'd like -LRB- in case the primary and contingent beneficiaries predecease the insured -RRB- . Each level -LRB- primary , contingent , and tertiary -RRB- can have more than one beneficiary . You also want to make sure to designate what happens to a beneficiary 's share if he/she predeceases the insured -LRB- especially if there is more than 1 beneficiary - e.g. does it go to the other beneficiary ? to the estate ? to someone else ? etc. -RRB- The other thing you want to make sure of is that the policy structure does not violate the `` Goodman Triangle '' -LRB- named after a court case -RRB- . The Goodman Triangle , in short , states that 2 of the 3 parties of a life insurance contract must be the same to avoid certain tax consequences -LRB- same owner and beneficiary with a different insured or same owner and insured with a different beneficiary -RRB- . If you want to place more than one beneficiary on the policy , the owner and insured would have to be the same person to not violate the Goodman Triangle . When the Goodman Triangle is violated , the situation can result in the monies being subject to estate taxes or gift tax consequences . If a policy is owned by a trust such as an Irrevocable Life Insurance Trust -LRB- ILIT -RRB- , the insured and beneficiary will be the trust and the insured will be the person who 's life the trust was created for . The trust would illustrate all of the payout structure scenarios when the insured dies and a claim is made on the policy . I hope the information is helpful - please feel free to contact me for assistance with your coverage and if you have any further questions . Thanks very much .
end question
start question
life-insurance
Why Is Term Life Insurance The Best Type ?
Term Life Insurance is not the best type of life insurance for every situation . We get regular calls from people who thought they would only need life insurance for a temporary period of time . However , now they are thinking ahead to their final years , and worried about where the money will come from to bury them . If the need is not permanent , however , Term Life Insurance is best for its relatively low price tag .
I ca n't say term life insurance is the best type of life insurance . It really depends on a person 's unique situation as to which type of life insurance is the best . Term life fills a specific need such as to create an instant estate at the untimely death of a primary wage earner or stay at home mother to replace income , payoff debt or educate children . I recommend meeting with an experienced independent life insurance broker to not only shop the market for you but determine which life insurance product you need to solve your unique issues .
Short answer : About 8 % Long answer : It 's hard to say exactly how many people own some type of policy that covers paying the costs of long term care - should one qualify for it - because there are many types of insurance policies that are not just `` stand-alone '' long-term care policies , but plans of insurance that include being able to use a percentage of other plan benefits for paying long-term care costs :1 . Stand-alone long-term care insurance covers only long-term care costs . It has no cash value . When a policy owner dies , coverage either lapses or stops paying benefits . It is not transferable . It can not be bought or sold on a secondary market . This type of long-term care insurance is sometimes referred to as `` traditional '' long-term care insurance , as well . It is the type of coverage that is most often associated with the `` percentage of Americans that own their own long-term care insurance '' .2 . Hybrid long-term care contracts consist of having long-term coverage and a life insurance policy that guarantees to at least return the full premium paid into the policy to the insured 's designated beneficiary . Usually , these are single-premium contracts , but some have options to also pay over a specified period of time , such as 5 - or 10-years .3 . Linked life + long-term care policies are basically a traditional permanent life insurance contract -LRB- Whole Life or Universal Life , including the Variable or Indexed type -RRB- . If a person qualifies for long-term care and they have the long-term care rider on their life policy , they may apply to the insurance company to advance or accelerate the face value of the policy -LRB- death benefit -RRB- to pay for the costs of care . There are various limitations on how much can be advanced at a time . If the face value of the life contract is completely advanced for long-term care , there is usually a residual death benefit of $ 5,000 - $ 10,000.4 . The latest addition to life insurance product lines are policies offering `` living benefits '' , one of which is very similar to the linked-life policy . In fact , the only difference is that a medical professional has to state in writing that the insured is not likely to recover from the condition that qualifies for long-term care benefits . -LRB- True long-term care insurance does not require that . -RRB- This type of living benefit is most often referred to as `` chronic care '' or `` extended care '' . Annuities may also have special considerations for paying out portions of the account value for long-term care costs.The point is , people who own life insurance or annuity contracts with long-term care accommodations are not typically included in with the 8 % that own traditional long-term care . So , the real percentage of those that have made some type of insurance purchase to offset long-term care costs is greater than 8 % . I doubt , however , that the total percentage of Americans that own any of the above-described types of policies would exceed 20 % at this time .
Most Life Insurance sold in the US is term insurance either through an employer , or group or directly to an individual . The concept is that you will be able to buy a certain level of coverage guaranteed at a certain price during some specified time period . So , it would be common to sell someone term life for a term of 10 years , 15 years or 20 years . The policy usually allows this purchase during the `` term '' without having to provide any documentation of insurability . Keep in mind a couple truisms . life Insurance is virtually always more expensive in the future then it is toady . Why ? You grow older . Secondly , a significant amount of Term insurance , never has an actual payout of benefits . Why ? The person insured lives past the end of the term . So while you may need Term insurance for the short term , take a look at whole life or variations of it that allows cash value accumulations .
There are a number of different types of life insurance policies because there are different types of coverage needed to best suit different types of needs . Permanent life insurance with a cash value is best if you want to borrow from your own money to pay for needs like college or weddings . Term life insurance if best for temporary needs like paying off a mortgage . Universal or Whole Life is best for paying permanent needs life funeral costs . You really ca n't call one type of life insurance best . They are all best if purchased for the right need .
Why can ? A simple question , but yet , so complex ! Why can someone do this or why can someone do that ? I have often pondered for hours to come up with the answer . And I believe , after years of thought-provoking consultation with friends and relatives ... I have the answer to the question `` Why can ? '' The answer ? Why not ?
Regardless of what type of insurance , if you 're asking why it 's priced the way it is , the answer is always this : it 's based on the actuarial data . Why is life insurance less expensive for women ? Because the data shows they live longer than men . Why is short term insurance less expensive ? Actually , I do n't know the specific actuarial data , but my guess is that the likelihood of your using insurance within 6 months is far less than if you had the insurance for many years .
When you ask which life insurance is best in Illinois there are a lot of thing to consider . First of all why are you buying the policy ? Are you buying it to pay your house off if you die , to pay for a funeral , to leave your family with extra money to help them re-adjust their life after you die or are you buying it as a retirement vehicle to replace your 401K . When you figure outthe why , then we can start to narrow down which company has that type of insurance to meet your needs . My years of experience has taught methat there is no one company that can meet all the individual needs of every person . I always look at the WHY first , then I can educate you on the different companies that could fit your needs . If you need more help feel free to Skype me or call 630-918-1673
What life insurance is the best depends on what purpose you want the life insurance for . The best way to answer your questions is to give an overview of the different types and then you can decide which one is best for you . Term insurance is the easiest to understand . You pay a specified premium for coverage for a specified term . Typical terms are 10 , 20 or 30 years . At the end of the term the policy renews at a higher premium for a new term until the policy expires . This type of coverage is temporary because the policy will expire at a specified time for example age 85 . Term policies are usually convertible to permanent insurance before before age 65 for example . Term insurance is best to provide the most coverage for a given premium today . Whole life insurance is as the name suggest permanent insurance with coverage for the whole of your life , It pays when you die not if you die before the policy expires . Whole life has a level premium and with some policies the premium can be paid up early for example 20 years or age 65 . The by-product of the level premium is a build up of cash value . If the policy is participating the build of cash can be even greater . Level premium , build up of cash , increasing death benefit and hands off management make whole life a premium product . It is regarded by many as the best . Universal life is a permanent insurance policy that can be in force the whole of your life if it is managed properly . The good news is the premium is flexible and you have a choice how the cash reserve is invested , The bad news is that the premium is flexible and you have choice how the cash reserve is invested is flexible , Universal life can be the best if properly managed . An independent insurance broker , who represents several companies could help you find the right policy at the right price . If you have further questions , or feel that I could be of assistance , please do not hesitate to contact me . If you would like to work with a local life insurance broker , you could start with a Google search . For example , if you search for : life insurance broker Halifax or life insurance agent Halifax , my name , along with several others , will come up . You can use the same method to find a life insurance broker in your community .
Term Life Insurance provides benefits only upon the death of the insured individual during the `` term '' . There are many reasons why a individual may chose to purchase a term policy instead of a whole life policy . The answer to your question is tied into the reasons why a individual purchased the coverage . Level Term Life Insurance policies generally have set periods of time -LRB- 10,20,30 years -RRB- where they will provide benefits , with level term premiums and benefits never change during the `` term '' or period of time that the individual is covered . There are also increasing/decreasing term life policies that are used to address different needs . The most common example would be a individual being contractually obligated to purchase decreasing term life when obtaining a mortgage . The policy would start out with death benefits equal to the mortgage , and decrease as the individual payed of the mortgage . The end result would be both the policy and the mortgage balance decreasing to $ 0 by the end of the period .
Why do people buy whole life insurance ? Well , I can give you reasons I did . I simply liked what it does . I locked in a life time rate in a policy that grows over time and builds up cash values that I can get to really easily and I do n't have to ask permission from anybody to do so . I like that I own the policy , I control the policy . I like that as an investment it is dull , boring and does it job of a reasonable return at a minimal risk situation . I like after all my health changes -LRB- type II , A Fib -RRB- that I do not have to seek out life insurance again because I have mine , locked in for my life . I like how in 2008 when I lost ten years of growth off my investments and my home value dipped too , that my life insurance kept cooking along as if nothing happened . I like that something I have ca n't go backwards . I figured out a long time ago , whole life insurance is the most risky thing an insurance company can sell for an insurance company , that is why it is priced the way it is . Think about this if you were an insurance company and price based on risk to the company , would the things that could really cost you , do you charge a little or a lot ? This is also why a good disability policy is n't cheap either .
Why not buy whole life insurance ? Well , you know you 're right , why not ? It is the only policy you actually control , they ca n't take it away or price you out of it . They ca n't make changes without your permission , they ca n't really do anything because you control the policy . That is why whole life is more expensive than other types of coverage . The insurance company is giving up control to the insured , so would they price that low or high ? There are a ton of other reasons as well , but I want to keep this brief .
That is a great question ! There are two basic types of life insurance , one that ends , and one that does n't . The one that ends is called `` term '' insurance . This type of policy is advertised often on TV and in mail by large Senior Citizen friendly companies , and unless you realize that it ends when you turn 80 , can be in for a big , unpleasant surprise . The term policy as a clearly stated end date , has no value if it does n't pay out , and becomes very expensive very quickly if renewed . `` Whole life '' insurance is exactly that - insurance for your whole life . It is more expensive than term life , because as long as you make your payments , it 's going to pay out -LRB- most term policies never do , that 's why they are so cheap -RRB- . If you would like to discuss which one might be best for you , contact me , and I 'll make time for you . Thanks for asking !
Wow ! There are as many answers to that question as there are qualifiers ! There are over 10 different types of Life Insurance , and over 1000 providers . Each provider has their own pricing for the same or very similar coverage . And there is a wide range of premiums dependent on the type of life insurance . All that said , the more important factors that determine the monthly cost or premium are 1 -RRB- age , 2 -RRB- sex , 3 -RRB- health , 4 -RRB- tobacco or non-tobacco , and 5 -RRB- benefit amount . To determine the best type of life insurance for you and the proper amount of benefit a number of things about you need to be known including your goals and needs . Each person is unique and has unique circumstances . That 's why I focus on educating my clients about the various types of Life Insurance available , the benefits and drawbacks of each . Then with your particular qualifiers we can match the best product -LRB- s -RRB- to your unique needs .
There is no one best life insurance company , and no one best type of life insurance policy . Life insurance companies are rated by rating agencies -LRB- AM Best , Standard and Poore 's , Moody 's and Fitch are the most popular -RRB- . You can look at their ratings with each agency to see how life insurance companies compare with each other . Regarding types of life insurance policies , sometimes Whole Life is best , sometimes Universal Life best suits a particular need , sometimes Term Life works best . To find the best company and policy for you and your particular need , you can visit with a reputable agent and ask them to find you the best qualify product that is suitable for your needs .
Ultimately , the best type of life insurance is the policy that is in force at the cheapest premium with the highest face amount on the day you die . Since none of us know that date , we must shop the market for the best coverage at the best price for your unique situation . There are lots of types of life insurance products on the market . The most popular are the two permanent or cash vale types of policies called whole life and universal life . These policies are a bit more expensive because they accumulate cash that can be used in the future for a critical illnees , college funds or retirement . The advantage is the money can be used tax free . The other popular type of life insurance policy is a term life policy . Term insurance is more affordable as there is no cash value , so you are in effect renting your protection . The premiums are typically guaranteed level for the term or period of years in which you purchase it . These terms range from annually to 5-10-15-20-25-30-35 years . Term life is a great solution to young families starting out on a budget to covering a debt for a specific amount of time . There are a lot of options in the market . I suggest using an independent experienced life insurance broker to help you navigate this maze of options .
That is a great question ! There is a reason why term life policies are so cheap , and a reason why you should know exactly what these policies are best designed to do . There is no cash value in a term life policy , as your premium is designed to only cover the cost of the insurance . The policy reaches its term and ends , and you walk away , or pay dearly to renew . This can be a real issue when you learn that the policies advertised so heavily by companies like AARP and AAA are term policies that end when the policy holder turns 80 . I hope that helps , thanks for asking !
To know the best type of life insurance for you , I 'd need to know some things about you . 1 -RRB- Above all , what are your needs for your life insurance ? Do you want a small policy to use for your funeral and other final expenses ? Do you want a policy that would get your three teenagers established if something happened to you ? The best life insurance for those two scenarios are very different . Discerning your purpose for your life insurance helps professionals such as myself figure out the best type and amount of coverage you need . 2 -RRB- How old are you ? Do you have any health problems ? Do you smoke ? Questions such as this give us the tools to find your best rate . 3 -RRB- What is available for you ? This is a questions we agents must answer . Some life insurance agents carry one brand of life insurance , others offer policies from scores of companies . Some agents will push one type of policy on you , others will hunt around for your best option , even if they have to refer you elsewhere . You can save a lot of time and frustration by starting with an agency who will go the extra mile to find your best type of life insurance , right from the start .
Under no circumstances can they term you without a reason . The reasons are also limited as to why the can term you . They can not kick you off the plan due to health conditions you acquired while you had the plan . When you hear rumors of people getting kicked off their plan because they became sick , they are just that , rumors . Failure to pay premium , plan discontinuation , employer dropping the plan , moving out of the plans service area are the main reasons a person would lose their coverage . They can not cancel insurance because someone has been incurring a high number of claims . I would suggest there must be some type of error with your cancellation . You should call the insurance company and ask them why they have termed you . They will have an answer whether it is legit or not is a different story but if they have termed you due to some error , you will be able to get reinstated .
Who sells the best whole life insurance ? Well in my many years as both a captive and independent I can answer truthfully , a lot of companies . The best thing about life insurance is that there are many companies that occupy that top of the table where best could apply to any of them . You may see from time to time , advertisements from companies showing they 're best for 250k coverage . What they put in small print would be male age 35 best possible class . Why ? because they may not be best for females age 30 standard plus class . The best place to be company wise will simply depend on who you are , how your health is , how much coverage you buy and do you smoke ? Your answers may make the best company be entirely different than somebody else like your spouse for example .
end question
start question
auto-insurance
Can I Get Insurance On A Car That I Do n't Own ?
As long as you are an authorized driver of that vehicle and the vehicle 's owner has coverage on the vehicle and you reside at the same premise as the vehicle owner you should be able to secure liability coverage for yourself on that vehicle . Contact a local agent to find out more about coverage availability and pricing in your area .
In general , no , not for physical damage to the car . To insure property you need to have an insurable interest in the property you 're protecting . In other words , you have to have something at risk . If you do n't own it , what do you have at risk ? This why titling is so important . You could , theoretically , put insurance on a car you do n't own and not tell the insurance company that it 's not titled to you . Hopefully , your insurance agent is experienced and professional enough to ask who the car is titled to , but it does n't always happen . So , say you 've insured this car you do n't own and you get into an accident . You submit your claim to your insurance company to get your car repaired . One of the first questions a claims adjuster will ask is `` who is the car titled to ? '' . If the answer is n't you , you 've got a problem . The insurance company will only pay the registered owner of the car . They are the only party that has a loss . The only exception to this is if the car is financed or leased . In this case , the finance company will require , as part of the contract , to be listed as a loss payee . This entitles them to collect on the damage to that car . That 's how it applies to physical damage . For liability or injury , it 's different . Here , the insurance follows the insured . You could , theoretically , get liability insurance without owning the car you 're driving . Again , your agent will ask who owns the car , and they 'll believe what you tell them . If a claim happens for injury or liability , they will protect you , the insured . I do n't know why you 'd want to insure a car you do n't own , but I have an idea . It could be that a friend or relative is loaning you a car because you do n't have one of your own or it could be that a child , or someone else in your household owns this car but does n't want to , or ca n't , insure it themselves because they 're young and it 's expensive , or they have such a bad driving record they just plain ca n't get insurance . Either way , do n't get yourself in a situation where you have to lie to your insurance company or agent . If something happens , the truth will come out and you may not get anything out of it anyway . Be smart . Find an agent you can trust and be truthful with him/her . They 'll tell you the right way to do it so that you do n't put yourself or your family at risk .
I would like to add my two cents to this question , as Im not sure a couple of situations have been covered . But the question is Can I insure a car I dont own . If you own and insure a car , your own policy should extend your coverage to any car you are driving -LRB- borrowed , temporary substitute or short-term rental -RRB- as long as it is not another car you own or regularly use . In that sense , your policy then insures you driving a car you dont own . If you dont own a car but often drive cars you dont own and want to make sure you are adequately covered , you should be able to purchase a form of Drive Other Car coverage . Its common to see this coverage on business auto policies covering the business owner and family members when the business owner doesnt own a personal car but is provided vehicles by the company . Here again you are in a sense insuring a car you dont own . In my practice , I like to make sure every client has access to an automobile insuring agreement , as a named insured on a policy covering an owned car , as a spouse or family member residing in the household or some form of Drive Other Car coverage . I like to see adequate limits , comprehensive and collision and appropriate uninsured/underinsured coverage . No responsible adult should be without some form of auto insurance coverage ; as an owner , operator , passenger or pedestrian .
Why would you buy whole life ? Here 's why I bought it . I wanted lifetime coverage as I do n't think I would die in 10,20 or 30 years . I was young enough to purchase a fair amount of coverage because I was in good health and purchased it at a locked in price . A price that they ca n't come back and raise on me . The WL offered reasonable safe growth , certainty that allowed me to take more risk with my other investment choices . My whole life became `` if I screw everything else up , this wo n't let me down . '' My safety net . After 20 plus years of ownership , whole life has done what it promised me , been there when I needed it and did n't go backwards in 2008 when ten years returns were wiped off my mutual fund accounts and my home value dropped 40 % . My boring steady unexciting whole life remained faithful to me . Now in my 50 's as a type II diabetic who just had his heart rebooted -LRB- cardioversion -RRB- because of A FIB , I really really appreciate the fact I `` OWN '' my policy . They ca n't raise the price , they ca n't end it . I did n't rent it , I OWN it . Maybe some readers will get how important that is . For all the financial gurus who may have said this was a bad idea , I have to ask why are so many people in their 60 's seeking new insurance ? Could it be they listened to the wrong people when they were younger and healthier ? There are a ton of reasons to own whole life , there is . All I can say is it is the most boring product you can buy . It will do what it 's supposed to , without fanfare or up and down excitement . It 's the most boring financial product you can `` OWN '' . I hope that makes sense to some who read these posts .
I understand it 's hard when you have a driver with , shall we say , a less than stellar driving record . Most companies , however , will want your husband to be named on your auto insurance policy . Over the years they 've realized that people drive the cars that they own whether they 're insured on a policy or not . It 's just the reality of the situation . However , that does n't mean that your rates have to be sky-high , as you put it . There are some pointers I can give you to help minimize the impact . Your husband can get his own insurance separate from yours . If his record is bad enough that he has be placed with a non standard -LRB- high risk -RRB- company , you can still have a policy through a standard company . As long as he has insurance , he does n't have to be listed as a driver on your policy . Whether you choose to have him get his own policy or list him on yours , list him on a car that does n't have physical damage coverage -LRB- comp and collision -RRB- . Physical damage coverage on a non standard policy can cost big dollars , as much as 75 % of the total cost of the insurance . Track his driving record . Any violation will eventually drop off for rating purposes . Most minor violations will drop off after two years , at fault accidents will usually drop off after three years , and major violations -LRB- DUI etc. -RRB- will drop off after five years . As soon as he 's eligible to be insured through a standard carrier , list him . Many people do n't realize this and continue to pay non standard rates even after they 're eligible . I 'll preface this last point by saying I do n't recommend it . Some companies can exclude a driver . In so doing they 're not rated on the policy and they 're record does n't matter . But realize that there is no coverage if they get into an accident , even if they 're driving a car on the policy . Once again , I do not recommend this . From time to time I see a driver that has a problem driving safely . They routinely get tickets and have accidents . Some will even just stop carrying insurance because it 's so expensive but do n't seem to see the correlation between their driving and their insurance rates . If he will , get him into a safe driving program . If he wo n't , you 'll probably be dealing with this for a long time . Good luck .
If you own a car and have your own auto insurance policy it still may make sense to carry the coverage that a rental car company offers . Most auto insurance companies will extend the liability and physical damage coverage to a car you rent . However , they usually will not cover `` loss of use '' . Even though your insurance will normally fix the car , the rental company will bill you for the daily rental of that car until it 's repaired and put back into service . Your auto insurance wo n't usually cover this cost . Think about it this way : if the car costs $ 30/day to rent and it takes 2 weeks to fix it and put it back in service , the rental car company will expect you to pay that $ 420 that it could have gotten if they had the car to rent . Their coverage will normally waive these costs . If you do n't carry physical damage on your own car , then you also have no physical damage coverage on a rental car . So , if you do n't have your own auto policy , or you do n't have physical damage coverage on your policy , I would recommend taking the rental company 's coverage . I would also recommend it if you do n't want to run the risk of having to pay loss of use charges after an accident .
-- > Normal 0 Renting a car is n't the problem , if you have liability and physical damage insurance on a car that you own that coverage should extend to other cars you might be driving including a short-term rental car . The problem is n't the rental car , it 's the rental agreement you sign and most renters fail to read it . Rental agreements often say you understand and accept the insurance the rental company carries on the car will not apply to you or applies only up to the state minimum . So if you do n't have your own coverage , there wo n't be any -LRB- or very little -RRB- if you have an accident . Most rental agreements require you to be responsible for any damage to the car even if it is not your fault . Knowingly or unknowingly , you assume a responsibility you normally do not have . If the rental car is damaged , the agreements usually say you agree to pay not only for the repair or replacement of the car but also the loss of rental revenue the company loses while the car is being repaired and any administrative costs the rental company incurs as a result of that damage . Your car insurance will not cover that . You also commonly agree to reimburse the rental company for any legal expenses or judgments they are required to pay . Your insurance policy may not cover that . Some of these risk assumptions may covered by the insurance you might have on your own car but many may not and that is where the problem lies . They have your credit card and you have given them permission to add these charges to your credit or debit card . Although you often hear your own insurance covers you when you rent a car that may only be a partial answer . Your insurance may cover some of the rental car expenses but not all of them . Make sure you understand what those expenses are , which ones your own auto insurance or personal umbrella covers you for and which ones you will be required to pay out of your own pocket . If these risks are more than you are comfortable with , the only other alternatives are to purchase the very expensive `` Damage Waiver '' coverage from the rental car company or simply do n't rent the car .
Why buy whole life insurance ? Well I bought whole life for several reasons , maybe they apply to someone else , maybe not . Life insurance is a personal choice . I can only really tell you why I bought it over term . First , I planned on living as long as possible , term does not work if I do that . Then I like that the death benefit increased over time to help battle inflation . I liked that the cash values were mine to do with what ever I like with . I do n't have to ask permission to take money out or put money back , it is mine to decide . I like that the price is locked in . I like that the insurance company can not come back later and increase my costs . I have control . I like that when my health changed and I became uninsurable that I had policies I controlled that they could n't price me out of or change the terms of . They were mine , purchased when my health was excellent . Twenty years later , when my health went south , the policies did n't . I like that my cash values did n't count against my kids FASFA contribution count . I really like that in 2008 when my real estate , market investments all took a big dump on my portfolio , my whole life did n't go backwards in value . In fact that year it was my most profitable portfolio item . I like going to sleep at night knowing my policies will be there for my family if I do not awake , but I really like that these policies will not let me down or be subject to the extreme market ups and downs that the rest of my portfolio is . This is just a few things I can mention . There are many many more but hey it comes down to what you actually want to happen , not what somebody else tells you what you should want . If it does n't fit what you want , do n't buy it .
Why do people buy whole life insurance ? Well , I can give you reasons I did . I simply liked what it does . I locked in a life time rate in a policy that grows over time and builds up cash values that I can get to really easily and I do n't have to ask permission from anybody to do so . I like that I own the policy , I control the policy . I like that as an investment it is dull , boring and does it job of a reasonable return at a minimal risk situation . I like after all my health changes -LRB- type II , A Fib -RRB- that I do not have to seek out life insurance again because I have mine , locked in for my life . I like how in 2008 when I lost ten years of growth off my investments and my home value dipped too , that my life insurance kept cooking along as if nothing happened . I like that something I have ca n't go backwards . I figured out a long time ago , whole life insurance is the most risky thing an insurance company can sell for an insurance company , that is why it is priced the way it is . Think about this if you were an insurance company and price based on risk to the company , would the things that could really cost you , do you charge a little or a lot ? This is also why a good disability policy is n't cheap either .
This is an outstanding question ! It goes to the heart of how best to protect your family , and sort through all of the choices out there . It can be scary trying to figure out who has the ` best deal ' and since most people do n't understand a lot about insurance , how not to get taken . I think it is fair to say also that people do n't have a high opinion of insurance to begin with , so agents are n't seemingly much better . So why not just choose a policy from an on-line company or name brand company ? Here 's what I 'd say to you . I have always done business as much by my feel for the person as by their product . If my server does n't care about me or my meal , I do n't go back to the restaurant , or I only order carryout from them . If a bagger at the grocery store just throws my groceries haphazardly into the bags , I 'll look for a different line every time . I want to know that the person I 'm dealing with cares about me , and my business . I also want to know that I have some flexibility - if they 're the only bagger or server , I wo n't go back to those places . An independent agent can offer more options than a name brand office agent would . The name brand can only offer that companies policies , and prices . If their policy is the best one , and I feel the agent truly cares about me and my needs , I 'll buy from them . Chances are though , I 've met with at least one other independent agent -LRB- one not tied to a single brand name - I myself work with several -RRB- to shop prices and coverage before deciding . Again , how they presented themselves to me as they worked for my business was as much a consideration for me as the policy details . If I did n't feel like they cared about anything but the sale , I 'd leave , and thank them for their time . When the time comes that I need help -LRB- and it inevitably does -RRB- I want someone who cares and jumps to help , not someone who has to hunt to figure out who I am . i guess for me , I want a relationship with my business people , -LRB- and my clients -RRB- not just a transaction . I hope that helps you , and I thank you for asking !
Renting a car is n't the problem , if you have insurance covering a car that you own , often the coverage on that car will extend to other cars you might be driving including a short term rental car . The problem is n't the rental car , it 's the rental agreement you sign and most often fail to read . These agreements often will say you understand the insurance the rental company carries on the car will not apply to you or in some cases it applies only up to the state minimum . So if you do n't have your own coverage , there wo n't be any if you have an accident . Many of these agreements require you to be responsible for any damage to the car even if it is not your fault . Knowingly or unknowingly , you assume a responsibility you normally do not have . If the rental car is damaged , the agreements usually say you agree to pay not only for the repair or replacement of the car but also the loss of rental revenue the company loses while the car is being repaired and any administrative costs the rental company incurs as a result of that damage . You also commonly agree to reimburse the rental company for any legal expenses or judgements they are required to pay . You assume all the risks , they assume none . Some of these assumptions may covered by the insurance you might have on your own car but many may not and that is where the problem lies . They have your credit card and you give them permission to add these charges to your card . It may not be necessary to purchase insurance when you rent a car , but be aware of what you are agreeing to . Make sure you accept those potential risks , are covered for them by your own auto insurance or personal umbrella , are willing to pay those hefty waiver charges or simply do n't rent the car .
In our business we get a request like this from time to time . It always raises a big red flag . It 's a claim nightmare waiting to happen . The question I always ask but is rarely answered truthfully is `` why would you want to insure something you do n't own ? '' . The truth is usually that someone will let them use a car as long as they agree to insure it . Or , someone will insure the car as if they own it and just not tell us they do n't own it . That 's hwy our CSRs will ask to whom the car is titled . You can not insure something you do n't own because you do n't have a loss if it 's damaged or stolen . That 's insurance 101 - insurable interest . If the car is damaged , the insurance company will only pay the person to whom the car is titled . If you lie on the application and say that the car is titled to you when it 's not , you may actually get paid . However , if the insurance company does just a little research you could find yourself in a world of trouble . Here 's the correct way to handle this situation . The insurance must be written in the name of the titled owner of the car . The person who is driving the car is listed as the primary driver . If the agreement is that the driver is the person who actually pays the insurance , that 's fine , the insurance company is n't concerned with that . But be aware that anything that happens with that car will impact the owner . A cleaner way to do this is to actually give or sell the car to the person who will be driving it and transfer the title . The insurance can then be written properly and there will be no liability issued to speak of . Be smart , find an agent you can trust . They 'll tell you legal way to handle this . Do it the right way and avoid a nightmare at claim time .
Not sure where this question is going but I 'll do my best . Insurance without a license is a possibility but not a certainty . It depends on your state and the companies that are available there . Most states require certain mandatory coverages to legally drive a car . You can not get these coverages without a valid license . However , you may be able to get physical damage coverage for a car you own , even if you do n't have a license . If you ca n't find out from your state 's website , call a local agent and ask . Some companies will write a comprehensive only policy that does not provide mandatory coverages to legally drive a car . If this is available , be aware that they will not provide a certificate of insurance . It will cover damage to the car ONLY with a deductible applied . They will also , most likely , require photos to verify that there is no existing damage to the car . I do n't know if this answered your question or not . If the question is about getting liability coverage without a license , I can be pretty confident in saying no . Prab , i believe , brings up a different view of the question . I approached it from the view that you 're not eligible for a license because of past violations . If you are eligible for a license and just do n't have one , such as moving to the US and you just have n't gotten a US license , then he 's correct . We will write the insurance with the requirement that you get a valid Michigan license within 30 days .
I have a bit of a different opinion about this . I believe most agents fail because they are n't trained correctly . I 've been doing this since 1991 and explored many company 's training programs . In that time , I have n't seen them change . Do you think the market has ? Insurance companies spend thousands of hours and millions of dollars training their agents on products , business plans , and sales skills . I 've consulted with new agents from some of the biggest companies in the country that were on the verge of failure . They did exactly what they were trained to do and they were failing miserably . These are some bright , knowledgeable sales professionals . You know what their companies told them to do ? Buy leads and call them , buy more leads and call them . If that does n't work , you 're not calling enough . Can you believe it ? When you find something that 's not working enough , do it more . I believe that the reason agents fail is that they are n't good prospectors . They 've never been trained in how to prospect or market themselves or their business . Try this , go to 10 agents , any age , any experience , and ask them what their biggest challenge is . I 've asked a lot more than that and I can tell you what the overwhelming answer is : `` I do n't have enough prospects to sell to '' . It 's the same with everyone . If you find someone who says they have enough or too many , they 're service providers , not agents . I watch really smart , professional salespeople struggle at the same time I look at a guy who looks awful , sounds worse , and does n't know anything about insurance succeed almost effortlessly . You know the difference ? That last guy knows how to talk to people . Watch him , he 's always talking to people and he actually listens to them and cares . Bottom line , the best prospectors are the most successful agents . As an industry , we have to begin training prospectors , not salespeople . We have to show new agents how to connect with more people and market themselves . We should spend more time training people on how to find new prospects than we do on how to sell to the prospects they do n't have . I believe there 's a shift coming from price driven , transactional selling back to a relationship based insurance practice . If we treat our products and services as a commodity , so will the consumer . So , let 's take the first step and change the way we train new agents . Let 's first find agents motivated by the profession , not the money -LRB- not that the money 's bad -RRB- . Then , let 's train them on finding good prospects . As I see it , that 's the future of our profession and the companies and agencies that start doing this will be on the front of that wave while the rest try to figure out why their 50 year old training program is n't working .
A Personal Auto Policy -LRB- PAP -RRB- generally comes with five coverages included in the premium . 1 . Auto Liability ... protects you from claims other people make against you arising from auto accidents 2 . Uninsured/Underinsured Motorists Liability -LRB- UIM -RRB- ... protects you for claims you make against other drivers who do not have insurance or do not have enough insurance 3 . Medical Payments ... pays money to doctors and hospitals for your medical expenses arising out of auto accidents 4 . Collision ... pays for damage to your car arising out of auto accidents where you collide with another car or object , like a tree . 5 . Comprehensive ... pays for damage to your car arising out accidents that are other than collision , for example , flood , fire and theft . When you ask , `` How Much Auto Insurance Do I Need ? '' , I 'm assuming you mean # 1 , Auto Liability so I 'll limit my answer to that coverage . In subsequent postings , I 'll answer how much you need for the other coverages . So , how much Auto Liability Insurance do you need ? It depends . If you just want to get on the road and be legal about it , in New Jersey , the minimum limit of insurance is $ 35,000 for each accident . You are also required to purchase Uninsured/Underinsured Motorists Liability and Medical Payments and they also have minimum limit requirements . Other states have similar minimum limit requirements and they are spelled out at each state 's insurance department website . Minimum limit policies will get you on the road , but they are not a smart use of your dollars . Consider an auto accident where you strike a Lawyer 's Mercedes ... his new Mercedes . Think $ 35,000 will take care of everything ? I would n't bet on it . And if $ 35,000 is not enough , you 'll pay personally for a long time . Now , if your primary goal is adequate protection for you , your family and your assets , you need to take a step back . Liability claims against you arising out of the use of an auto is one area you should be concerned about . You should also be concerned about liability claims arising out of owning a home , operating a boat or a motorcycle or an RV . Liability claims can also arise from owning vacation property . You can trigger a claim . Your spouse can trigger a claim and your children can trigger a claim . Considering all the people in your life who can trigger a claim and all the ways they can do it , How much is enough liability insurance ? How much should you buy ? Answer : I do n't know . But I do know EVERY smart insurance consumer , concerned about `` how much insurance is enough ? '' should purchase a $ 1 million Personal Umbrella Policy . A Personal Umbrella Policy is a secondary policy . Your auto policy , homeowner policy , boat policy , and so on are all primary policies . Each primary policy has its own limit of insurance . In the event of an accident -LRB- in the home , in the car or on the water -RRB- , you have a primary policy to protect you . If the amount of primary insurance is not enough to pay a claim , the Personal Umbrella policy adds a million dollar cushion . Is a Personal Umbrella policy expensive ? No . A million dollar umbrella GENERALLY starts around $ 125 . That 's $ 125 for $ 1,000,000 of liability protection you can use over your auto insurance or your homeowner insurance or your boat insurance and so on and so on . If there is a better deal in the insurance business , I 'm not aware of it . Now if you 're sold on the idea that a Personal Umbrella Policy has merit , we need to return to your original question : `` How much Auto Liability Insurance do I need ? '' You need an amount of insurance that satisfies the minimum requirements of the Personal Umbrella Policy . For example , if your Personal Umbrella Policy requires you have a $ 300,000 Personal Auto Liability Limit , that 's what you need to buy for your auto policy . If the requirement is $ 300,000 and you have $ 250,000 , there will be a $ 50,000 gap in the event of a serious claim . Again , for example , you 're responsible for a serious auto accident . It ends up costing $ 600,000 . Your auto policy will pay $ 250,000 , you 'll have to pay $ 50,000 and then the umbrella will pay the remaining $ 300,000 . So you can see , you need to buy the correct amount of auto and home insurance and the correct amount for any other primary policy so you do n't have a gap in coverage . Can you buy a Personal Umbrella Policy with a limit higher than $ 1 million ? You can , but the higher the limit , the greater the scrutiny . I hope I 've answered your question , but if I have n't , feel free to call , fax or email me .
Why get whole life insurance ? I ca n't give you a reason why you should , only why I did . I wanted a locked in price the day I bought it , till the day I died . I wanted something to work both if I died too early or lived too long . I wanted something I owned , that could not be taken away later on . I wanted to control the policy , not the insurance company . I wanted to take away an insurance company 's ability to say no to me . I wanted a safe place to put money to let it grow , to cover for my other investment choices . I wanted a place to access cash if needed , where I did n't have to explain to a guy in a cubicle `` why ? '' and get his blessing . If any of these reasons work for you , by all means consider the choice .
If you 're auto insurance is just too expensive for you to afford , there are some things you can do to help ease that burden . You may not like some of my advice , but it 's the right advice . A very large part of your insurance premium is the physical damage to the car itself . Raising deductibles will lower your premiums somewhat . Ask yourself if you really need to cover the physical damage at all . If it 's an older car and you own it outright , this could be an option . Before you do this , however , understand that , if your car is damaged , the insurance company will not pay to fix it . One thing not to do is to lower your bodily injury liability limits . You wo n't save very much and you 'll be putting everything you own at risk , including your income . Here 's the advice you may not like : Perhaps you have too nice a car for your budget . If that 's the case , get a less expensive car . Then , when your finances -LRB- or your driving record -RRB- allow , you can always get a nicer car . Talk to an agent you can trust . They can give you advice on these questions as well as others . It also helps if you check rates on a car before you buy it . Everyone loves getting a new car . You just do n't want an unpleasant surprise when your insurance bill comes .
what is the purpose of whole life insurance ? Whole life insurance has many purposes for many people . They do n't even have to have the same needs . I can speak as to why I own whole life , I own Whole life because I wanted my life insurance to be inforce when I die . I wanted a safety net for my other investment activities . I wanted control of my policy . I wanted something that will not go backward , once the money is there , it is there . I wanted not to have to buy life insurance later in life as the price no matter what type of policy goes higher . I wanted something that would not end , until I do . Those are just a few of the purposes behind my decision 25 years ago to buy whole life , and I forgot to mention I wanted a locked in premium .
-- > Normal 0 I can suggest of a number of reasons . First , if I own a car and while it is being used it hurts someone or damages their property , I feel one has a moral obligation to reimburse them for their injuries or damage . Moral obligations would seem to be one of the cornerstones of any society . Since most people dont have a pile of cash hanging around to reimburse people who they hurt , auto insurance is a convenient efficient mechanism that helps people do that . For a relatively small amount of money , an insurance company will agree to reimburse someone should my car injure them . Depending on my moral compass , that limit could be anywhere from a few thousand to several hundred thousand dollars . Of course , I also might realize when driving my car someone could hurt me or passengers in my car . So , I might like to have the same kind of agreement with the insurance company , pay me if someone hurts me and doesnt have any insurance or not enough to make me whole again . Then of course , if I run into someone or something with my car and damage it , it would be nice not to have to come up with a large sum of money to fix or replace it . So it makes sense to include that in the deal I make with the insurance company . Most states have enacted laws , which say if you want to drive your car on our highways , you have to agree to be responsible for any damage you cause . To back up that promise , you have to prove you are financially able to do that . You can either put up a substantial sum of money in the form of a bond or an insurance company will do that for you for a price . In a nutshell , these are the basic reasons to consider buying insurance . And if you want to consider the alternatives , walking , driving a car only around your own yard or coming up with a large sum of cash , I think you will find insurance a very attractive alternative .
There really is n't a right answer for this , there is only your answer for you . There are numerous software programs that you can plug into and it will spit out a number and you can choose to follow that program . Is it correct or exact ? Unfortunately the anwer is yes , no or maybe depending on the individual . I tend to individualize my approach to `` how much life insurance I need ? '' when thinking about how much coverage to get . The first or base level of coverage I consider is simply this `` if I did n't wake up tomorrow , how much money would put things at $ 0 . ? '' This is my starting point or minimum level of coverage I would consider . From there , I would start adding based on answers to questions posed like ; Does my spouse work ? Would extra money help in a transition to work ? How old are my children ? Do I want to have something for college set aside for them ? Who can do for my family what I can do if something breaks and I 'm not there ? What would that cost ? If the main person who does the childcare passes , how much would I need to help with that cost ? You can look at your own situation and bring different questions and costs to the mix too ! Then much like the purchase of lumber for a project you figure the amount plus 10 % extra for just in case . This may be why some just say 5X income or 10X income as answers . The assumption is all those questions would be answered and then some . The big thing is do n't let what ever number you come up with discourage you from getting life insurance . Some is always , always better than none .
end question
start question
health-insurance
What Are Some Cheap Health Insurance ?
The premiums paid for health insurance like any other insurance is relative to the perception of value to the consumer . Most people do n't like to carry health insurance and consider any premium to be high at least until they use it and then this perception will either be confirmed or denied . Under the new ACA plans for those who did not qualify for a subsidy find that their premiums are much higher than what they are used to and even with a much higher deductible . There are some more affordable plans out there for those who have experienced the higher premiums . However , these plans do not qualify in the ACA rules so are subject to a tax penalty but , the savings in premium dollars could more than offset the higher ACA premium . For more information on this plan please contact . Ron Hinch , The Hinch Financial Group @ 843-450-9879 .
How do you define cheap ? In 2014 the average monthly cost for a Silver level ObamaCare compliant major medical plan was $ 328 . By that standard any coverage costing less than that would be `` cheap '' . People who qualify for little or no subsidy of their individual health insurance -LRB- shame on you for making more than $ 42,000 annually -RRB- may argue that $ 328 or more per month for health insurance is n't affordable much less cheap . But the folks in Washington , D.C. know better about these things than you do . Some people who are healthy and are low consumers of health care services have turned to Short Term Medical plans as a more affordable option for health insurance coverage . And , indeed this may work out well for some people as Short Term Medical policies are generally cheaper than individual major medical policies . However , before pursuing this strategy you do need to be aware that Short Term Medical plans do n't cover pre-existing conditions , usually do n't cover preventive care , may not cover prescription drugs and may have other limitations . Also , they do not meet the criteria under ObamaCare for avoiding the individual coverage mandate and therefore can leave you vulnerable to a tax penalty for noncompliance . You should seek out an experienced health insurance agent to discuss your needs and options and to fully understand whatever health insurance product it is that you purchase .
That 's a great question ! I 'd like to give you a bit of advice - some things are good to buy `` cheap , '' other things in the long run are better to spend a little more money on . Cheap shoes will hurt your feet , and wear out quickly . Buying a very cheap car often means spending a lot on constant repairs . Insurance is one of those things , especially for a young driver , that it is better to not go `` cheap '' on . You want better coverage , as you are much more likely to have an accident than an experienced driver would be . You will want a lower deductible , as you will inevitably end up needing repairs at some point . Please look for a local agent who can help you , or feel free to drop me a line , I 'd be happy to give you some pointers . Thanks for asking !
Remember cheap does n't mean better . What you want to find is a reputable company AND cheap rates . Compare your coverages as well as the rates - this is what I tell my clients . Another thing to look at is who is selling you the cheap rates - do you have a 1-800 telemarketer to talk to or a Licensed Agent who knows exactly what 's covered in your state ?
By cheap I assume that you are referring to the premium . The cheap I like to think of is the cost when you have the claim and your company stands behind you and pays everything that you expected . Regardless of the premium , you will then know what cheap really means . A major property loss could take 100 years of premiums to pay for . Having correct coverage is the way to have the truly cheap homeowners policy , find an agent , one you can trust .
Video Transcript : Which life insurance company is the best ? I do n't know if I can say that , because remember , they all have different fortes . Some are great underwriting companies , some are great death benefit ; cheap premium companies . Some companies are really good about supplemental income ; their cash values are really good and they have a good track record of accumulating wealth . You want to look at ` what is the reason ? What is the area ? ' Each area has their own forte . Some people want highly-rated carriers , so you 're going to look at the big financial strength of a carrier or the carrier 's claims - paying ability . Any of those areas are separate areas of discussion and that 's why it 's difficult to ever say , `` Here 's one , or here 's the best . '' If I 'm looking for price tag , underwriting , cash value accumulation , or just cheap premium just to pay my premium off to cover my liability , it depends upon what category you 're in so I can be able to say , `` Is that the best company ? ''
There are many carriers out there all can be quite `` Cheap '' But be careful when shopping for rates cheap does n't always mean you have the proper coverage . Also depends on what type of coverage you are looking for . When shopping online there are times that the rate is fantastic then you find out that they are not even allowed to sell insurance in your state . you also have to think about in the event of a claim can they be reached and you talk to someone local ? Buyer beware make you are covered properly like the old saying goes if it is to good to be true then most likely that is the case . However I do have some carries that I have a client in that has full coverage on a car and only $ 143 for 6 months of coverage with low deductible now that is cheap but her coverage is not . So the key is making sure you know what you are purchasing before you put the money out . A Local agent or the States insurance commissioners office can assist you in finding what you are looking for
What do you mean by government health insurance ? If you are asking about a government health insurance plan such as Medicaid then I guess you could say it 's cheap as that is a program for the poor for which they do n't really pay anything . If you are asking about health insurance for Federal government employees they have many health insurance plan options at different price points to choose from . I do n't think many government employees think their health insurance is cheap even though their coverage is largely paid for by the government . Certainly in comparison to most of their peers in private sector companies these days most government employees pay less for their health insurance coverage .
That is a great question ! There is a reason why things are cheap . You buy a cheap car , you spend a lot on repairs . You buy cheap clothes , they rip or shrink . Term insurance is cheap because it has very few perks , like a whole life policy would . Your term policy will have no cash value , and will end at a specific time . Because there is no management of your cash involved , and the odds are great that the company will collect from you for years and not have to pay you anything , those policies can be sold very cheaply . About the only way that you can stack the odds back in your favor and get money out of your policy would be to get a `` return of premium '' policy or rider . For a larger premium payment , this allows you to receive back most of what you had paid into the policy . If you have questions , feel free to drop me a line , okay ? Thanks for asking !
Regardless of whether or not a life insurance agency advertises cheap life insurance , the reality is that all life insurance companies must charge you the same price , no matter where you purchased the policy from . However , there are some factors that enter into whether you will find a cheaper policy at one agency over another . Some of these agencies ' methods are positive , and some are negative . Here are some examples of both . Positive 1 -RRB- The insurance agency takes all your health details and shops among multiple carriers to find the one that will issue your policy at the cheapest price . 2 -RRB- The insurance agency will sell you a policy that suits your need , not pressuring you to buy a more expensive policy just because it makes them more money . 3 -RRB- The insurance agent will go to bat for you if you are rated unfairly , and strive to help you resolve that , or find you another policy , if possible . Negative 1 -RRB- The insurance agency offers you a short term policy , or accidental death policy , just to make the sale . They do this whether or not that type of policy best suits your need . 2 -RRB- The insurance agency neglects to ask pertinent health details and then offers you a cheap policy . Or else they ask health details but still claim to be able to get you impossibly low rates , often out of ignorance . Ironically , to get the cheapest life insurance , you need a life insurance agent who is `` valuable '' . Go to someone you trust to listen to you , who will shop your case among multiple carriers to find your best price , and who will not sell you something worthless just to save off a few dollars and make the sale . That way you will have a policy of value at the most affordable price .
As Peggy noted , it 's really cheap to buy life insurance on a newborn baby . The primary underwriting factor is the responses to yes or no health questions - there are no exam requirements for them because of their age -LRB- they 're babies ! -RRB- . Many parents look at buying a whole life policy because it 's very cheap and can be kept for life . A great rider to look at adding to a WL policy on a child is a guaranteed insurability option rider -LRB- GIO -RRB- - in short , this rider says that you can increase the face amount at certain intervals with no additional medical underwriting . Another option many parents consider is adding a child rider onto their own policy - this is a very cheap and easy way to add term coverage for your children . Let me know if I can be of further help . Thanks !
Good question but think about it we need to ask ourselves a few questions before we go cheap sometimes cheap is good we all need to be good stewards of our money so the questions we should ask if answered honestly will be an indicator . Do I eat good healthy food ? Do I drink alcohol ? Do I work out at least 20 minutes 2 times a week ? How is my spiritual life ? Then we can decide which policy fits my need it can be fairly cheap but you must answer the questions and have a good consultant that cares about you not the money the money will come when we serve the people .
Cheap car insurance for young drivers is available ... If you know where to look ! Many reputable insurers offer low down-payments and cheap rates . Shopping for these best offers is best handled by an experienced auto insurance broker with preferably 20 years -LRB- or more -RRB- experience . Not only do we help our clients find the best deals , but our websites offer free information and advice that can often help reduce premiums . There are no fees or charges and taking care of clients is the top priority . Brokers do n't charge fees and we do the shopping so our customers save . That 's not a bad deal ! Try us and let us find cheap auto insurance prices for teenagers !
Have you seen that esurance TV commercial -LRB- WEBSITELINK -RRB- ? Everybody wants CHEAP insurance and almost any insurance can give you CHEAP insurance ... . But the reality is that you get what you pay for . Renters insurance is probably the most affordable coverage that you can find and will probably cost you $ 15 / month for great coverage . Make sure your policy has replacement cost on contents and includes additional living expenses . Saving $ 5 / month could wind up costing you thousands of dollars if you have the wrong policy . Check with an independent insurance agent who can look at multiple carriers and see what policy is right for you .
Term life insurance is cheap because it only pays out if death occurs during that period of time . The lower the age , the lower the actuarial risk of passing away , the lower the price . To get a policy that will be assured to be there to the end of life , the premium may be reasonable , but not necessarily `` cheap '' . Knowing it will be there for your loved ones at the time of need can definitely make it worth the cost . That is not to say there is not a need for cheap term life insurance . Thankfully , both Term and Permanent policies are available so that coverage is available and affordable for nearly anyone who wants it .
Cheap life insurance is relative to the insured person 's age , gender , build , health , and tobacco status . The premium also depends on the type of policy and amount of coverage . So it is impossible to put a dollar value on `` cheap life insurance '' . You can run some quotes online to see what prices you might get . Then give the website a call to make sure that you qualify for the quotes you are looking at . Sometimes we even find lower priced policies for our clients when they call in .
NO ! NO ! NO ! Am I clear here ? If someone looked you in the eye and sold you this company 's coverage as true major medical insurance then you have been scammed . If you went to a web site and went `` Oh , cheap health insurance '' and then purchased it without reading the details you were still kind of scammed but you are also at some fault for not doing your homework . This is what is referred to as a limited benefit health plan . It probably does technically have some insurance components to it that are what are called `` indemnity plans '' which pay a fixed amount for a day in the hospital or for a visit to the doctor or towards other health services . These plans do not meet the legal requirements under ObamaCare to be defined as major medical insurance and to avoid the individual mandate tax penalty . In fact , they did n't meet the legal criteria to be called major medical plans before ObamaCare went into effect . Such plans were often marketed to businesses with lots of low income employees as a `` better than nothing '' alternative to more expensive group major medical plans . Sometimes they are also marketed to vulnerable individuals who do n't understand health insurance and that sounds like the case here . If your son is on a very tight budget then he will either qualify for very substantial premium subsidies in the government health insurance marketplace or for Medicaid . In either case he would have better , more affordable coverage through these options than what this outfit is selling . Also , please do my profession a favor and if an insurance agent has tried to sell you this coverage and told you it was major medical coverage please report him or her to your state 's insurance department for investigation .
Life insurance is priced the same for everyone . You can not get a discount on life insurance , and the discount store mentality does not work well with life insurance . You need to work with a knowledgeable agent to get your cheapest price . Getting a low quote from someone who knows little about life insurance does not mean you will get that price . I feel that the best way to buy cheap life insurance is to use an agency who can take your health information and match you up with the company that has your best rates . Some , like mine , can be found online . But wherever you go , the place to buy cheap life insurance is where the agent is valuable .
Is disability insurance expensive or cheap ? Well yes and yes . You can build a disability policy to meet your needs or to fit your price . It can be as expensive as you are willing to pay and as cheap as you are willing to pay . What can be really expensive either way is not reading and understanding your policy 's definition of disability .
Your going to have to contact your local independent agent to get some quotes for you . It is not going to be cheap , but if you maintain a good record when you turn 25 your premiums will change . If you decide to become insured under your parents policy have them inquire their independent insurance agent about an umbrella policy , or personal excess liabilty . They will be shocked at how cheap a $ 1 million dollar policy costs , which will help protect their home , retirement , etc. . Best of luck !
end question
start question
home-insurance
Is Home Warranty Insurance Worth It ?
A home is one of the largest investments you will ever make . When you purchase a home however , there could be and usually are , a lot of hidden problems that surface after you have been in your home for a while . This is true especially if you purchase an older home . Some of these problems can be costly . Does n't it make sense to protect your investment ?
There is no similarity between Home Warranty and Home Insurance except the word ` Home ' ! The purpose of a Home Warranty contract is for a homeowner to enjoy a warranty for covered appliances in the home ; the warranty provides assurance that covered appliances will be repaired or replaced . There are usually options available ; for instance , an Air Conditioning Unit orSwimming Pool Equipment may be available as an additional endorsement . Home Insurance on the other hand is necessary to provide the sudden and accidental loss to the dwelling from covered perils namely Fire , Lightning , Hail , Wind etc. ... Home Insurance does not provide the warranty of home appliances from break down or normal wear and tear . For example , in the disastrous event of a house fire , the homeowners insurance will provide coverage to rebuild the home and replace appliances that were damaged in the fire . This example is simply meant to aid the understanding of the difference between a home warranty and a home insurance policy ; none of the above will supersede a consumer contract issued by an insurance carrier or home warranty company .
Air Conditioning Units are covered under Homeowners Insurance policies for the perils afforded against by the policy ; i.e. Fire , Wind , Hail , Vandalism etc. . . If the question is regarding repairs and maintenance , the unit would be covered either by a Manufacturer 's Service Contract or a Home Warranty Policy and not your Home Insurance Policy . Homeowners Insurance is designed to protect the home against covered perils to assist the homeowner from financial loss ; it is not designed as a repairs and warranty policy for appliances and general upkeep . Home Warranty policies are available for appliances and repairs of systems in homes ; the homeowner would have to pay a premium for the warranty policy and each service visit would be covered after a deductible which would be agreed upon on the policy .
Homeowners Insurance will cover any home fixtures against perils covered by the policy ; i.e. Fire , Vandalism , Wind etc. . . If your quetsion refers to the maintenance or repair of your heating system , your question should be referred to your Home Warranty coverage and not your homeowners insurance . In very few cases , homeowners insurance policies may offer a warranty endorsement which can be purchased and added on to your homeowners insurance policy . You must consult your present insurance carrier and inquire as to whether a home warranty endorsement is available and the premium charged .
Home Warranty is not required but I highly recommend it . Home Warranty is different from homeowners in that it can cover to fix or replace equipment in your home such as your HVAC Systems or pool equipment . In most cases the warranty company will continue to fix the item before replacing and this process can be extremely time consuming and frustrating . Be sure to research the companies so that you can get a good idea of how they treat these claims
A homeowners insurance policy will pay to replace a furnace if damaged or destroyed by a covered loss . For example , if the furnace is damaged from fire or water damage , it would be replaced . If this question is aimed at replacing a furnace due to breakdown , the homeowners policy is not a home warranty policy . A home warranty policy should be reviewed regarding coverage for the maintenance or replacement of the furnace . In a few States and with select companies , there may be a Home Warranty endorsement available which may be purchased as an addition to the homeowners policy ; however , this is rare .
This is a difficult question to answer without viewing your specific policy and the coverages contained in it . Is a water heater covered within a policy , generally yes . It just depends on what happens . For example , general wear and tare is not covered under the standard homeowners policy ; however , if you adding coverage for appliances or household items -LRB- that would have cost you more each year -RRB- or you pay for a home warranty , it could be covered for wear and tare . If the damage is from a busted pipe that occurred by no fault of your own or was from a power surge , it could be protected if the policy is setup correctly . It does come down to what exactly you have your policy and within the policy what the limits are . If you have a home warranty program that is always the best way to go because claims with the warranty companies will not result in higher premiums for your homeowners policy , but if you take a claim against your homeowners for the coverage -LRB- EVEN if it is n't covered -RRB- it could result in a slight increase in your prices for next year . If the cost is less than your deductible it would n't benefit you to make a claim on the home policy either .
Gap insurance is a coverage that is offered either on your auto policy or through the auto finance company as an option -LRB- or requirement -RRB- on your loan . Basically , what it does is provide you a clean slate if you total a car with a loan on it . Lets look at an example : Erica buys a 2009 Volkswagon Jetta from a used car shop for $ 14,000 . The used car value could be 12,500 depending on what form you use -LRB- blackbook value , NADA , Kelly Bluebook value , etc. -RRB- The form doesnt matter here other than answering the question of is this car worth less than the loan I have on it ? Erica is required to have other-than-collision coverage -LRB- often called comprehensive coverage , which is a misnomer -RRB- and collision coverage as a stipulation for the loan she is getting with the bank or finance company . That coverage states that it will repair her car for specific reasons in the policy OR pay her the actual cash value of the car if it costs less than the repairs it would take to make the car drivable . Often a state variation will come here saying a car can not be repaired if the expenses are 70 % or more of the value of the car - the insurance company needs to pay the policyholder the actual cash value of the car instead . If you look closely at your auto policy , you also have a coverage to protect yourself from liability caused by you damaging the property of others . This is often referred to as property damage liability or the third number in your limits -LRB- such as 100/300/100 limits -RRB- . It states that it will repair the damage caused by your actions that you are held responsible for OR pay the actual cash value of that item if less than the cost of repairs . This is important , so remember it . So what does this mean for Erica , knowing this information ? Lets say Erica has had her Volkswagon Jetta for 3 years and diligently made payments on her car without missing a payment date . The loan is now $ 9,000 after interest . The value of the car has depreciated down to $ 7600 because of the age , mileage , and usage of the car . Technically , Erica is paying $ 1400 more on the car than what it is worth -LRB- taking interest out of the equation to make it easier . -RRB- Lets say at this 3 year mark , Erica gets into an accident and the car is beyond repair . It doesnt matter if she causes the accident or if someone else was at fault , because both property damage -LRB- what the other party uses to fix Ericas car if they caused the accident -RRB- and collision coverage -LRB- the coverage used to fix Ericas car if she caused the accident -RRB- use actual cash value to determine how much repairs will be made and how much money they will pay Erica . Both coverages will give Erica $ 7600 for her car . However , since Erica has a lien on the car because she is financing it , that money actually goes to the FINANCE COMPANY and Erica wont see a penny of it . The finance company will apply that $ 7600 to her loan , meaning there is a $ 1400 balance left she is responsible for . The bank isnt a charity so they will still tell Erica she has to pay it because it is still in her contract and the bank lost $ 1400 on a car that no longer exists . Erica still has to pay $ 1400 on a car she doesnt even have , and still has to buy a new car . Thats a bad place to be in life , wouldnt you say ? Even worse , Erica might still have to make payments even if the accident wasnt her fault ! She gets all of the blame of the finance company but caused none of the problems ! If Erica had gap insurance , it would kick in at this point and relive Erica of the extra $ 1400 she would be responsible for . If Erica was ahead of her loan and the cash value of the car was more than the loan , she would get any money paid above the loan amount -LRB- thus satisfying her finance company as well -RRB- and the gap insurance would not take effect . Either way , Erica isnt paying money any more on her car that is non-functional . Here are some common stipulations found in gap insurance - check with your loan company to see if they apply to you : Gap insurance is there to pay for the loan on the car and THATS IT ! If you increase the loan to pay for any extras you are typically not going to get that part of the loan covered and will still have to pay . This includes things like the extended warranty , credit life insurance in case you die before the loan is paid off , and things like that . It might even say the gap insurance isnt paid for either and you will have to pay for that . Its definitely worth looking into . Gap insurance also says that it wont take effect if you are behind on your payments on a certain amount , pay more because the car is worth less from overuse or modifications , and wont cover intentional damage to the car . Basically , its not there to handle your loan if you are financially strapped and can not handle the payments anymore and want to get rid of the car . Another option in place of gap insurance is to get the repair/replacement coverage for your auto policy . This says that instead of getting the cash value of a car beyond repair , you get a replacement car instead -LRB- even if it costs more than the value of the car . -RRB- You would still have the loan but youd have a car as well . This coverage might not be available and it often is only available for cars less than 1-5 years old and only if you are the original owner . Talk to your agent to see if you qualify . Gap coverage is an excellent coverage to get , and is worth the investment . Used cars typically drop in value faster than the loan does from payments , and you dont want to be stuck paying on a car you dont even have anymore .
Homeowners insurance is designed to cover your home and possessions if they are damaged in a covered loss or stolen . It also protects you in a lawsuit . It is totally different than a home warranty . A home warranty just covers you for undisclosed problems when you purchase a home . It does not cover your belongings , structure damage caused by fire , wind or other perils , liability , or theft .
A leaking air conditioner may only be covered by homeowners insurance in the following 2 circumstances : 1 . If the air conditioning unit 's leak was caused by a covered peril -LRB- i.e. fire , vandalism , wind etc. . . -RRB- 2 . If the homeowners insurance policy has an Equipment Breakdown -LRB- home warranty -RRB- Endorsement affording coverage for the air conditioning system . Most carriers do not offer the equipment breakdown endorsement on a homeowners policy but it is worth asking your local agent or broker if one is available .
Home Insurance may cover appliances in home ; there are 2 types of appliances , those that are fitted and those that are free standing . Fitted appliances constitute part of the Dwelling Coverage on the home insurance policy , whereas , free standing appliances may be covered under the Personal Property Coverage on the home insurance policy . The perils covered under a home insurance policy must be reviewed regarding the damage to the appliances . For example , Fire , Smoke , Lightning & Water damage may be covered on the policy which would also carry forward to the appliances . Regarding free standing appliances , the policy must afford coverage for Personal Property . If this question was intended for the reason of upkeep and maintenance of appliances , home insurance policies are not intended to repair or replace appliances due to maintenance and/or breakdown . Home insurance is intended for sudden and accidental losses which could cause financial hardship to the homeowner . If you wish to cover your appliances , you may wish topurchase a Home Warranty Contract from a small handful of carriers who offer a maintenance contract ; in this case , you will pay an annual premium as well as a Service Charge for each call when a repair company is dispatched to take care of a covered maintenance situation . If your question was indeed regarding perils covered on a homeowners policy , you may wish to contact your local agent and review the coverage on your policy or WEBSITELINK and we 'll be happy to review your coverage for you at no charge .
I am unfamiliar with any insurance coverage called `` Builders Home Warranty Insurance . '' There is a builders home warranty , which is essentially an escrow account maintained by the contractor . The funds are maintained to cover any future defects in workmanship due to sever changes in the area or faulty workmanship . Just to point out , insurance is for accidents . So the only insurance that could be maintained by a builder is worker 's comp , business personal property/real property and liability . Builders also maintain floaters for their tools and materials on a job site . The only insurance I could think of that might apply is a product/complete operations coverage . Even then , it is more than likely that this would excluded for contractors . I hope this helps .
There are two different policy types that may pay for repairs : auto insurance , and vehicle warranties . Traditional auto insurance may make claims payments to repair your car after an accident . You may need to file a police report and describe how the accident occurred . Vehicle warranties help pay for repairs caused by manufacturer defects . If your car breaks down the vehicle warranty may pay for the repair . Normal wear and tear is rarely covered -LRB- brake pads , oil changes , tire wear , etc. -RRB- .
It depends upon why your transmission needed to be repaired . A motor vehicle warranty and extended warranties cover material defects and mechanical breakdowns . The warranty may be limited by time and mileage . Auto insurance covers vehicle repairs resulting from accidents . Collision covers damages resulting from accidents while you are driving the vehicle . Comprehensive coverage pays for damages caused by external forces : flood , tree falling on car , etc. . Your auto policy may or may not have these optional coverage features .
No . Home Insurance is not intended to cover a toilet leak . Typically the cost to repair such a leak is minor and Insurers expect the insured to take care of that on their own . Youcan get a warranty policy to cover major systems in the home . Home owners insurance covers areas like vandalism , fire , storm damage etc and tends to focus more on the structure of the home than the minor repairs that result from normal wear and tear . Plus most home owner polices have a deductible that must be paid before claims are paid . If the repair is less than the deductible it makes more financial sense to just fix it .
A renters policy will cover a computer that is damaged by one of the covered risks . If the computer is broken because it simply no longer operates , that is probably not a covered risk . A covered risk would be fire damage , lightning damage , or something like that . Some computer manufacturers provide warranties and extended warranties to cover mechanical failures .
Car insurance will only cover repairs due to an accident or vandalism . If you want to get coverage for major car insurance repairs , that would be covered by a car warranty . These can be purchased at the time of purchase or at a later time through certain carriers . If you do look into this option , be sure to check the company reviews online and through the Better Business Bureau as there is a great deal of customer dissatisfaction with many of these companies . This would be a warranty and not insurance .
Homeowners Insurance usually covers water damage except as excluded on a policy ! Water Damage due to Flood Waters from outside are not covered and also the Backup of Sewers/Drains may be limited or excluded on a home insurance policy unless endorsed otherwise . If water damage is caused as a result of a leaking roof or broken interior plumbing , the damage would usually be covered . Please note : plumbing is not covered by the home insurance policy since plumbing is expected to be maintained in good condition at all times by the homeowner . A home warranty policy may be separately purchased by the homeowner for maintenance repairs including plumbing . For further details on coverage , please consult your policy booklet and/or contact a licensed representative to assist reading the policy to answer your question in detail .
Great question . Your water heather is not something your home insurance will cover in a claim situation . You will have to pay to replace it yourself . Unless you have a home warranty policy that can cover your water heater . Good luck and you should always contact your local insuance broker for additional questions .
It will if it is stolen in most cases but not maintenance or breakdowns . You need a home warranty policy for that and also always remember that we are responsible for maintaining all equipment in our homes . Cut back tree limbs , maintain plumbing such as toilets when they keep running or faucets that drip . If this is not taken care of and an incident occurs you could be denied a claim if you knew about it and did not repair it before it caused the damage
end question
start question
retirement-plans
What Is The Best Way To Plan For Retirement ?
First create a financial profile that includes your timeline to retirement , your life expectancy , your tax bracket and your risk tolerance . Estimating timelines will help you frame your retirement planning . Knowing your tax bracket will help you decide whether to use a qualified or non qualified retirement plan . Determining your risk tolerance will also help your select the right investment product . You need to discover if your employer sponsors a retirement plan , especially if it offers matching contributions . This can help you decide whether to use an individual or employer sponsored retirement plan .
What are the best ways to save for retirement ? Well , when I see this question and I do see it a lot I sort of answer it this way . The best ways to save for retirement is to get into the habit of saving for retirement . There are many ways to save for retirement , there is no best way , there are ways that work best for you , but again the big thing is to do it .
Many consider an arbitrary age , such as 65 , as the time when they must retire . The better question is , when will I be ready to retire ? Planning towards that date makes better sense . Almost 40 % report that they started retirement at a date that they did not choose . This makes early planning very important . There is quantitative data that will be necessary to start this process . You should prepare a current financial statement so that you can identify your assets and your liabilities . A cash flow statement would show both your current income and spending habits . That would give you a good indication about your spending in retirement . It would also help you decide if your retirement objectives are realistic . You might be living on a modest income , but planning to retire in luxury . That might be difficult to accomplish . When you are looking at debt you need to identify those debts that will remain into your retirement . On the asset side you need to determine how much of those assets will be available once you retire . You probably have some assets that you dont think about such as cash value life insurance , the equity in your home , another home , or collections . Armed with this information you should seek professional help . If you are uncomfortable with that a visit to the local library will probably locate books that can help you evaluate things for yourself . If you do talk to a professional expect questions about your family , hobbies , organizations and other things that interest you . The next step , taken either alone or with a professional , is to identify and prioritize your retirement goals . It is often difficult to visualize what life will be like once you retire . You should , however , identify what activities you want to do when you retire . If you want to do wood working or golf or travel , these things have costs and need to be identified . Some activities that you enjoy today might be difficult when you retire . Many people want to leave a legacy . If you can establish now what you want to leave to charity or to your family that would be most helpful . If these can be funded early in the process it frees you to make decisions about your spending without worrying about conserving capital for a legacy . The three most pressing issues for most people are providing for a retirement that lasts longer than they anticipate , providing for their surviving spouse and the potential expense of long-term care . These concerns play an important role in your retirement plan and may even affect the date that you start retirement . Your cash flow statement should show what you are spending now . Those expenses will change somewhat and it is important to make those adjustments . Identify which expenses are absolutely necessary and which are discretionary . The way that you provide for basic expenses will be different from the way that you provide for your discretionary expenses . Remember that expenses are not going to remain constant over retirement . Inflation is a problem in retirement that results in increased expenses when the income is probably remaining the same . At the same time , with age comes reduced capability to engage in some activities and that might lower the cost of retirement . The next step is to identify the sources of retirement income . For most there will be social security . For a surprising number social security provides most or all of their retirement income . Perhaps you are fortunate and have a pension plan . Perhaps you have saved money for retirement in qualified or non-qualified plans . Armed with this information you can start to formulate a plan that will take you through retirement and help you meet your objectives .
Saving for retirement as a 30 year old you have an advantage over a 50 year old you have time . First thing to do is start saving regularly now . You should take advantage of tax deferral plans to get the full effect of compound growth . In Canada that mean Registered Retirement Savings Plans -LRB- RRSPs -RRB- and Tax-Free Saving Accounts -LRB- TFSAs -RRB- . If you have an employer that will contribute match your contributions take advantage - that is free money . Financial or retirement planner can help you determine what your specific portfolio should look like , depending on your risk tolerance and time horizon . Financial planning , Retirement planning and Estate planning are all integrated . What you do with one often affects the other . The first step in planning for a Good Retirement is to start saving regularly as early as you can . The challenge often is that retirement seems so far away that it is easy to put off . Now that you have started saving , what are you saving for ? Deciding what a successful retirement means to you can be quite challenging . What do you want to do for the rest of your life ? A lifestyle planner can help . There is some information on this topic under retirement on my website www.jpw.ca if you are interested . Now that you have a basic idea of what your successful retirement means , the numbers can be `` crunched '' . Your retirement or financial planner can fine tune your retirement planning to make what you want to happen , happen . What particular investment vehicles you should use , depends on your individual situation . Be sure to take advantage of retirement plans that are tax deferred -LRB- in Canada , RRSPs and TFSAs -RRB- . Tax deferral allows you to get the full effect of compound growth . If you have further questions , or feel that I could be of assistance , please do not hesitate to contact me .
Financial planning , Retirement planning and Estate planning are all integrated . What you do with one often affects the other . The first step in planning for a Good Retirement is to start saving regularly as early as you can . The challenge often is that retirement seems so far away that it is easy to put off . Now that you have started saving , what are you saving for ? Deciding what a successful retirement means to you can be quite challenging . What do you want to do for the rest of your life ? A lifestyle planner can help . There is addtional information on this topic under retirement on my website www.jpw.ca if you are interested . Now that you have a basic idea of what your successful retirement means , the numbers can be `` crunched '' . Your retirement or financial planner can fine tune your retirement planning to make what you want to happen , happen . What particular investment vehicles you should use , depends on your individual situation . Be sure to take advantage of retirement plans that are tax deferred -LRB- in Canada , RRSPs and TFSAs -RRB- . Tax deferral allows you to get the full effect of compound growth . If you have further questions , or feel that I could be of assistance , please do not hesitate to contact me . If you would like to work with a local Retirement Planner , you could start with a Google search . For example if you search for : retirement planner Halifax or retirement planning Halifax , my name along with several others will come up . You can use the same method to find Retirement Planners in your community .
In order to determine what is the best retirement plan , you first need to clarify what you are trying to accomplish . What does a successful retirement look like for you ? Once you have an idea what that means then you will be able to calculate what it will cost to fund it . The would will be able to determine what is best for you . Additional information on retirement planning is available on my website www.jpw.ca If you would like to work with a local Retirement Planner , you could start with a Google search . For example if you search for : retirement planner Halifax or retirement planning Halifax , my name along with several others will come up . You can use the same method to find Retirement Planners in your community . If you have further questions , or feel that I could be of assistance , please do not hesitate to contact me .
How to plan for life after retirement requires that you determine what retirement success means to you and then determine what you need to do to fund it . Your successful retirement includes : healthy aging , family relationships , meaningful activities , spirituality , a balanced life plan and more . A lifestyle planner can help you if you are interested in more detail . -LRB- Some offer online programs -RRB- There is also more information on retirement planning available on my website www.jpw.ca . Your financial planning questions may include : How much money will I need to retire ? How long will my money last ? When can I retire ? What about my business ? What is my optimum product and asset mix ? Do I want to leave a legacy ? and more . Retirement planning is extremely easy to continuously put off . The earlier you start the better . If you are within 10 years of retirement or slowing down , then it is time to get serious . The first step is to take the first step with your retirement or financial planner . If you would like to work with a local Retirement Planner , you could start with a Google search . For example if you search for , retirement planner Halifax or retirement planning Halifax , my name along with several others will come up . It will be the same in your community . If you have further questions , or feel I could be of assistance , please do not hesitate to contact me .
There are two issues involved in determining the likelihood of running out of money . The first is the amount of money you have accumulated to help provide retirement income and the second is the rate at which you spend that money . The return on the accumulation is important however without sufficient capital and a reasonable rate of withdrawal your retirement nest egg can be exhausted at some point . Retirement could last a very long time . Some will be retired longer than the period of time that they work . With improving health and medical treatment for diseases that have shortened the lives of those before us , you could be looking at a retirement of more than thirty years . Retirement may start unexpectedly . Waiting to start accumulating money for retirement can be hazardous . Almost forty percent of retirees report that there retirement started because of circumstances beyond their control . Losing a job after age 50 could trigger retirement as could the disability of a spouse or parent . Moving capital from your current income stream is critical to develop a retirement fund . As crucial as returns can be , unless there is a movement of capital there isnt anything for those results to work with . If you are employed you should certainly understand your employers pension plan if one is offered . Under normal circumstances the company pension plan will provide the greatest opportunity to shift capital into a retirement fund . If you are the employer there are some opportunities for you to provide for your retirement . Many of these are complicated and require expert assistance . The bottom line is that you do have opportunities . Individuals can also establish Individual Retirement Accounts -LRB- IRA . -RRB- This also applies to spouses that are not gainfully employed . The contribution is limited but if started early enough can make a significant contribution to the movement of capital into your retirement fund . You might have heard of a Roth IRA and that too can become an important part of your retirement fund but it has different rules and you should consult with a tax consultant and a Retirement Income professional about that . The second half of the issue is the way that money is withdrawn from your retirement account . This whole subject is really complex and involves a lot of decisions but the basic thing is to understand the need for a budget . Without a budget you can not set a withdrawal rate and you can not know how long your retirement fund will last . Most Americans resist budgeting but it is something that can be started easily and can be started even today . While you might not be retired you can start to record your expenses . The longer you do this the better handle you will have on your spending . The more detail you use in your record keeping the more your budget projections will increase in accuracy . There are assets that most people do not consider as they come into retirement . The first is their ability to work . If there is something that you enjoy and are good at you should prepare to move into that activity when you retire and with some planning that can be an income producing activity . This can be anything from consulting to a hobby that you love and from which you are able to earn money . Some people write some take photographs ; others sell hand made products at trade fairs . These types of activities can enhance your retirement fund by reducing the need for immediate income . There are , of course many other issues to consider such as housing , long term care and legacy goals but if you can get these two principles started you will be well on your way to providing a satisfactory and predictable retirement .
There are several steps that a retired person can take to increase their income . The first is to unretire . Retirement is overrated . Working has positive effects on a person and when the work is meaningful it can add years of enjoyment . It can certainly stretch your retirement budget . Even before you retire you can discuss this with your employer to determine if there is some way you can return to the workforce as either a consultant or contract worker . It would be best to determine which aspects of your work you enjoy and what type of projects you want to do . Enter into an agreement to work on those things that interest you . I know a teacher who shows up two periods of day to teach Physics and then gets in his car and drives home . He enjoys what he does and doesnt want to participate in the wider campus life . Sometimes it isnt possible to continue to work for your current employer . In those instances make an inventory of work in which you excel . Armed with that list contact people who need full or part-time help in your area of expertise and offer your services , or contract for your services . If you can not find an employer who needs your talents consider working for yourself . There are a variety of ways to advertise your skills and there are people looking for your talents . If you want to try something altogether new there are franchise opportunities available . These opportunities run the gamut from stores to on-line services and sales . Finding a program that suits your capabilities and temperament should be relatively easy . Some of these opportunities can become quite lucrative . I have clients who are leaving their employment long before retirement because their on-line sales business is flourishing . Obviously working provides income and it also reduces the number of years that you will depend upon your retirement savings to provide income . If you are drawing retirement income this will give you money which you can put into a Roth IRA to fund the period when you finally do stop working altogether . One of the most important things that working does is to allow you to delay receiving social security . For a long list of reasons it is usually to a retirees advantage to delay the start of benefits until they reach age 70 . The increase in benefits is substantial to the worker and to the widow it is amazing . Working provides a great deal of emotional satisfaction and a sense of freedom . Another technique to increase your retirement income is to tap into the equity of your home . Regardless of whether the mortgage is paid or not , you can take out a reverse mortgage after age 62 . A reverse mortgage will allow you to tap the equity in your home . This is a complex transaction and the only transaction that I can think of where an applicant must be counselled by a disinterested party . It is the right move for some , though and could make your retirement more comfortable . Another way to stretch your retirement dollars is to determine what you own of value that you no longer need . If what you own can be converted to cash it might help stretch your retirement income assets . Selling things on the internet is relatively inexpensive and can be quite fruitful . I advertised an accordion on the internet and was besieged with interested buyers . Estate sales demonstrate that there are things that are not being used by the retirees that are of interest to the public . Often cars are no longer being used , undeveloped land lies idle and jewelry lies unused in a safe deposit box . Another way to stretch your retirement income is to determine what services are available to seniors in your location that cost you money currently . Many places offer discounts and sometimes services can be free . Even utilities companies participate in programs to lower costs for seniors . With almost 50 % of retirees depending on Social Security for their retirement income it is very important to understand how you can stretch that income and even increase it .
Ideally planning for retirement should start as soon as we start working . Why ? Chances are we will make it to retirement and be there longer than we are in the traditional workforce . In short , the sooner you start saving the more you can take advantage of compound interest . A pilot has a checklist to be sure nothing is left out . I suggest you use one to help plan for your retirement , it will save you time and money . It is a shameless plug , but you will find one at www.RetirementPlanningCheckList.ca that you can use as a guide . Here is brief overview : First you need to decide , what a successful retirement means to you and then choose a retirement date as a focus point . Next determine , what it will cost to fund your retirement goals . Do a retirement budget , etc. . Once you determine the cost , how much you need to accumulate and need to save can be determined . Examine and co-ordinate the various sources of retirement income . Review your employee benefits to determine what you will need to supplement with personal plans . If you are self employed , you will need to address what is going to happen to , and with , your business . Succession planning needs to be addressed . Ensure your estate plan is up to date with what you want to happen after you are gone - will , beneficiaries for insurance and retirement account , etc. . Keep your spouse informed and be sure to have a Personal Record Organizer that provides the location of your important documents . Choose a financial planner to assist you . Take action , get started . If you have further questions , or feel that I could be of assistance , please do not hesitate to contact me . There is additional information on retirement planning and business succession planning on my website . www.jpw.ca
Is an annuity a qualified retirement plan ? NO . An annuity can be `` used '' in or as part of a qualified retirement plan . An annuity on it 's own is not a qualified retirement plan . Where people get confused terminology wise is when they have a product -LRB- like an annuity -RRB- in their retirement plan , so they consider the annuity to `` be '' the retirement plan . The easiest way to think of retirement plans is they are a box , that stuff goes into . A qualified retirement plan is a box that you can put stocks , bonds , mutual funds and annuities into . The `` box '' is what makes them `` qualified . ''
A business owner uses a business to convert their human capital -LRB- skills , energy and time -RRB- into a stream of income . However converting that business into a stream of retirement income is a different issue . When a business owner wishes to retire they remove from the business one of its greatest assetsthemselves ! There are a couple of options facing the business owner to use a business to generate retirement income . The first option is to sell the physical assets of the business for the best price possible and close the business . Under the best circumstances this approach will yield a percentage of the value of the assets and generates nothing from the good will of the business . However , this approach will free the business owner from all responsibility for the business and they can invest their time as they wish , free from the concerns of the business . A second option is to sell the business as a going concern . Selling a business is complicated . Whoever buys the business expects that the business will pay for itself . People dont buy a business on a whim . Unless the potential buyer of the business can secure outside financing -LRB- which is quite unusual -RRB- the business owner is actually going to become the banker for the people buying the business . The result is that a business owner will likely fail to realize the full value of the business . In most small businesses it is the personality of the owner that makes the business successful . When that owner retires the greatest asset of the firm has left as well . Even your best employee can not replace you . So now the business owner is the banker for a company that is probably going to be less successful and that will not generate much retirement income . Many sole-proprietors have poured all their profits into the company . When they want to retire they find that they have invested in little else . Since it is expensive and complicated to establish a retirement plan for the employees the entrepreneur forgets to set aside money for his own retirement . If the business owner establishes a retirement plan , that plan might reduce the value of the business because of its long term obligations . Often successor management fails . Making a success of a small business isnt easy . If successor management fails owing the original business owner money , that business owners retirement income is jeopardized or worse yet , the former owner might have to come back into the business at a time when it is inconvenient and perhaps damaging to their health . An entrepreneur can accumulate money for his own retirement by setting aside funds early in the business development . This is really difficult when the business is screaming for more cash . However , setting up a pension plan or other savings plan is crucial in order to have money on which to retire . Grooming successor management can be expensive and difficult but it is the only way to prepare a stable person with the capacity to purchase the firm . There needs to be a direct transfer of the face of the company from the original owner to the successor . The bookkeeper may be great but he is unlikely to lead a company into success when high personal contact is required . A business owner might consider selling the physical assets of the business , and also negotiate a contract that in exchange for a fee for a period of time at a stipulated rate the original owner will provide consulting for the successor . Then rather than paying a debt which is not deductible the successor is paying wages or a fee and that is deductible . The original business owner is receiving income rather than interest and payment of a debt . A business may have limited value when it comes time to retire . Plan for your retirement now , while you can .
A retirement plan really is an extension of a financial plan.There are two parts . Your financial planner may be qualified to help you with both as a retirement planner or work with a lifestyle planner . The first step is determining what you want to do when you retire . How do you define retirement success ? Deciding when you will slow down and what you will do with your time - your lifestyle can be a challenge . Once you have an idea what retirement success looks like for you then your financial planner can determine what it will cost to make what you want to happen happen . The next step is to design a plan to make it happen . Then take action and follow up . If you have further questions , or feel that I could be of assistance , please do not hesitate to contact me . If you would like to work with a local Retirement Planner , you could start with a Google search . For example , if you search for : retirement planner Halifax or retirement planning Halifax , my name , along with several others , will come up . You can use the same method to find Retirement Planners in your community
This best type of retirement plan is one that will fund the lifestyle you want to have in retirement , weather storms and not run out before you do . The first step is to decide what retirement success means to you and then calculate what is needed to fund it . The theory behind asset allocation is to mitigate risk by using difference asset classes . In retirement planning , product allocation is using the strengths and features of different products to mitigate risk . There is no one best product . If you would like to work with a local Retirement Planner , you could start with a Google search . For example , if you search for : retirement planner Halifax or retirement planning Halifax , my name , along with several others , will come up . You can use the same method to find Retirement Planners in your community.If you have further questions , or feel that I could be of assistance , please do not hesitate to contact me .
You are not unique . Studies show that less than twenty percent of those without an active plan for retirement feel confident about retiring . Here are four strategies that you can pursue if you are unsure that you can retire on the income you will receive when you retire . The first strategy is to increase your savings for retirement now . As people approach retirement they frequently lose responsibility for children , their mortgage may become paid-off and their disposable income might climb . Seizing this opportunity to increase saving for retirement is crucial . If your employer matches what you put into a retirement or savings program try to make a matching contribution to the company plan . Be careful about putting excessive money into the company plan as the investments contained in the portfolio might now reflect your risk tolerance and you could become quite worried over them . Maximum contributions increase on certain retirement savings programs and you should explore the opportunity that could afford to you . Make sure your retirements savings are coordinated . A retirement income expert could be very helpful in this regard . There are severe penalties if you inadvertently overfund a pension or retirement savings plan . If you are saving all you legally can for retirement you should then focus on reducing debt . The less debt that you carry into retirement the higher your satisfaction will be . At a minimum eliminate any credit card debt and installment purchase debt . Discuss with your accountant the wisdom of reducing or eliminating a mortgage . The second strategy would be to get better performance from your investments . This can be a reason to sit down with someone who specializes in retirement portfolios . You could have investments that have underperformed for a while and have little prospects of rebounding . This might be the time to adjust your assets so that you are better able to reach your retirement goals . The third strategy is often overlooked and yet it is the most obvious . You might be able to work longer . Forty percent of retirees start retirement because of some unforeseen event and at a date that they had not selected . The illness of parents , spouse or children can often force an early retirement . As you approach retirement make an inventory of your marketable skills and interests . Focus your attention on what you want to do and develop the expertise to move into that area whenever retirement starts . If this means staying at your current employer that can be negotiated most of the time . Some people negotiate for reduced hours , or returning to the exact same job as a consultant . If you like your work and you like those you work with , dont think that you must quit because you have reached some arbitrary age . Working longer is the quickest way to enhance your retirement income . My brother could probably work into his 90s because he was a programmer over fifty years and knows some proprietary computer languages that are still being used , but few people can program them . The fourth strategy is to decide to live on less . If this is going to be your strategy , start reducing your standard of living now . Waiting until the day you retire to downsize can bring more trauma than you want . You can live on less now , save the difference . Then when you retire you can keep marching along . This can include moving to a smaller , less difficult to manage single story home . This could mean resuming cooking rather than eating in restaurants . It usually will include reducing the number of cars . For some this will mean establishing a joint residence with a child . While this can be done , planning is essential . Your childs idea might be putting you in the middle bedroom and that might not be desirable . These are practical strategies that anyone can follow to increase the likelihood that your assets will not be exhausted in your retirement and that you can enjoy your retirement . Planning is really the key to having a successful retirement .
Where the best place to save for your retirement depends on your situation . As a general rule though a plan that has tax deferral is best . That will allow you to receive the full effect of compound interest or growth . In Canada plans like Registered Retirement Savings Plans -LRB- RRSP -RRB- are tax deductible and provide tax deferred growth , they are designed specifically for retirement savings . The income is taxable when it is withdrawn . If you have a plan where your employer will contribute and perhaps match your contributions . It might a Registered Pension Plan or towards your RRSP , regardless that is hard to beat . Other option is a Tax Free Savings Account -LRB- TFSA -RRB- where the contributions are not deductible , but have Tax Free growth and the money is not taxed on withdrawal . There is no cookie cutter plan or product that is best . I really depends on your individual objectives . If you have further questions , or feel that I could be of assistance , please do not hesitate to contact me . If you would like to work with a local Retirement Planner , you could start with a Google search . For example , if you search for : retirement planner Halifax or retirement planning Halifax , my name , along with several others , will come up . You can use the same method to find Retirement Planners in your community .
The life expectancy for sixty-five year old men and women has increased by more than ten percent since 2000 . This finding has implications for everyone preparing for retirement . The obvious issue is that if you are already receiving a private pension now that the trustees of that pension are going to be under increased pressure . Returns on investments are quite low and now the time that payments will be required has increased substantially . If you are looking forward to retiring in the near future on a defined benefit pension plan the trustees will be doing what they can to reduce their liability . While this increase in life expectancy will affect private retirement plans , public pension plans and multi-company pension plans might be even more vulnerable . Some of these plans are not subject to the same sort of regulations and are even now facing a shortfall in funding . While this may seem like bad news this increased life expectancy also means that many people are reaching retirement age in better physical condition than in previous years . For many this will allow them to continue meaningful work past their normal retirement age . These extra years of work can work wonders if you delay starting Social Security Benefits and they have the same positive effect on any other retirement benefits that you can delay . If you are planning your retirement plan the effect of an increase in life expectancy means that you can change careers if you wish . I know a sixty-seven year old man who has recently started teaching in a local public school . There are a variety of interesting jobs . It is important to determine your interests and get the training to move into that field when your days working in your current job become less than rewarding . For people who have annuity contracts this could be a wonderful opportunity . As their life expectancy increases the payout on the annuity doesnt change . The annuity could become an extremely important part of their retirement plan . If life expectancy continues to increase annuities purchased today could increase in value and utility . The increasing life expectancy may result in your retirement plan offering a lump sum payout . If you receive that offer you should consult with a Retirement Income Certified Professional . The alternatives presented seem to be based on the same data ; however , there might be some reasons to select one option over another . This might be an opportunity to roll over the retirement plan into an IRA that is invested more aggressively . That aggressive IRA might make the difference when inflation raises its ugly head again . The key message to everyone concerned about increasing life expectancy and what it mean to their retirement plans is that each of us needs to Save more , spend less , invest wisely and , if possible , work longer . Some will spend as much time after age 65 as they do working and that requires planning to make sure that there is sufficient income to meet that increasing life expectancy .
Where is the best place to buy life insurance ? In Washington state it would be my office of course ! ;-RRB- Actually the best place to buy life insurance can vary . It could be online , on the phone or at an office . What you 're looking for is a agent who can answer your questions in such a way that you understand it . The agents role is not to speak to you in such a way that you are left scratching your head later over what was said . Big words , fancy charts do not make a good agent . A good agent translates the information you want into a way you understand , a poor one speaks over your head and bluffs their way through . I knew of an agent who used to produce a boiler plate document that was about two pounds of paper , of which two pages were actually about the client . The rest was fluff . He made a lot of sales that way because the clients were impressed by the volume presented , not the quality of information . The best place to buy is the place that actually answers your questions in a way that you understand and reduces the background noise as best as possible .
There are a lot of different kinds of annuities available from dozens -LRB- perhaps even hundreds -RRB- of insurance companies . Annuities are offered by insurance companies and primarily used as a means of securing a steady cash flow during retirement years . In many ways , an annuity is very much like a pension plan offered by a company for retirement . Perhaps the best feature of an annuity is safety . Insurance companies are rated as a measurement of financial strength and have proven over the past 125 years or so to have financial stability second to no other type of financial institution . In today 's world where fewer and fewer employers offer a pension , planning for a reasonable retirement income stream seems to be challenging for most workers . An annuity -LRB- or even several -RRB- can provide the type of retirement income security that previous generations have enjoyed . Should an annuity be the only retirement income vehicle for you ? Absolutely not . Your retirement income plan should be balanced in a way that works for you . You should always seek the advice of a qualified retirement income planner so that strategies and products can be tailored to your individual situation .
Any program where money is being set aside for retirement would be a retirement savings program . These programs address a fundamental concern . In order to have adequate money in retirement you must shift current spending to capital which can be drawn down in retirement in the form of income . The statistics are alarming . Few properly prepare for retirement . The result is that many must retire on a greatly reduced income , continue working , or seek outside help to sustain themselves . The competition is between providing for current needs and wants and forwarding money into the future for spending in retirement . A retirement savings plan helps you do that . Retirement savings plans come in a wide assortment but can be grouped into plans where the employers match a percentage of the contributions made to the plan by an employee to those where the worker pays the entire amount saved . These plans can be divided into two groups , those which are funded with money after taxes and those which are either withdrawn from payroll or are deductible on a personal income tax return . These types of plans are taxed differently when a person retires so a person should carefully consider their options when opening a retirement savings plan .
end question
start question
life-insurance
What Are The Different Kinds Of Life Insurance ?
There are two types of life insurance coverage : term life insurance and permanent life insurance . Term life insurance is generally offered in five year increments like 5 , 10 , 15 , 20 , 25 and 30 years . Permanent life insurance has four versions : participating whole life insurance , current assumption universal life insurance , indexed life insurance and variable universal life insurance .
There are two genres of Life Insurance , -LRB- Term and Permanent -RRB- , but there are at least 10 different Kinds within those genres . So your question is a very important one to know the answer to ! Universal Life is most often referred to as Permanent insurance , but it 's really a hybrid of Term and Whole Life ... and it will expire and be void of cash value and any benefits at some point unless you ` over fund ' it . Unfortunately that part is rarely explained to people when buying insurance . The main kinds of Term Insurance are Mortgage , Credit and Life . They 're all basically the same in that they are in force for a limited period of time and pay the benefit amount to the named beneficiary upon the death of the insured . In the case of mortgage and credit policies the beneficiary is the mortgage or credit provider . In the case of Term Life usually the beneficiary is the spouse , children or other relative of the insured . Also with Term Life there may be an accelerated benefit rider that pays a percentage of the death benefit to the insured in the case of critical or chronic illness or injury . There are a large variety of Permanent Life policies available . Whole Life Paid Up at a predetermined age , -LRB- such as 65 , 95 , 121 , etc -RRB- , is the kind that never ` expires ' and continues to grow cash value until the benefit is paid . As mentioned above there are `` Universal Life '' policies , which can be ` fixed ' , ` indexed ' or ` variable ' . Indexed and variable are tied to the stock market with regard to their cash value , but all are a hybrid of term and permanent . There are other kinds of Whole Life designed for business partners , -LRB- Buy out -RRB- , and for businesses , -LRB- Key Man -RRB- , etc. . So when looking to implement life insurance your best bet is to utilize the services of an insurance Adviser who is not tied to just one provider and can be unbiased help you to determine the best policy for your specific needs and goals . Please contact me if you want more information .
That is a GREAT question ! The `` twin '' question to `` how much is right '' , is : `` Which KIND is right '' . There are more than 10 types of Life Insurance : at least 3 kinds of `` Term '' insurance , and at least 10 kinds of `` Permanent '' insurance . Which kind is right for you depends on your goals and needs . That would include your family situation , your financial situation , and what and who you want to benefit . Then when all that is determined the amount of benefit can be determined . A kind of `` rule of thumb '' - taken completely out of context with all the other variables is about 8 to 10 years worth of your annual income . But in reality each situation is unique to the individual client . That 's why personally I take an Education and Fact Finding approach to advising my clients on which kind and how much insurance to implement .
There are two genres of Life Insurance , -LRB- Term and Permanent -RRB- , but there are at least 10 different Kinds within those genres . So your question is a very important one to know the answer to ! Universal Life is most often referred to as Permanent insurance , but it 's really a hybrid of Term and Whole Life ... and it will expire and be void of cash value and any benefits at some point unless you ` over fund ' it . Unfortunately that part is rarely explained to people when buying insurance . The main kinds of Term Insurance are Mortgage , Credit and Life . They 're all basically the same in that they are in force for a limited period of time and pay the benefit amount to the named beneficiary upon the death of the insured . In the case of mortgage and credit policies the beneficiary is the mortgage or credit provider . In the case of Term Life usually the beneficiary is the spouse , children or other relative of the insured . Also with Term Life there may be an accelerated benefit rider that pays a percentage of the death benefit to the insured in the case of critical or chronic illness or injury . There are a large variety of Permanent Life policies available . Whole Life Paid Up at a predetermined age , -LRB- such as 65 , 95 , 121 , etc -RRB- , is the kind that never ` expires ' and continues to grow cash value until the benefit is paid . As mentioned above there are `` Universal Life '' policies , which can be ` fixed ' , ` indexed ' or ` variable ' . Indexed and variable are tied to the stock market with regard to their cash value , but all are a hybrid of term and permanent . There are other kinds of Whole Life designed for business partners , -LRB- Buy out -RRB- , and for businesses , -LRB- Key Man -RRB- , etc. . So when looking to implement life insurance your best bet is to utilize the services of an insurance Adviser who is not tied to just one provider and can be unbiased help you to determine the best policy for your specific needs and goals . Please contact me if you want more information .
The advantages of having life insurance is knowing that your financial obligations will be taken care of and not a burden on your survivor . The disadvantage of life insurance is that for the vast majority the insureds do not match their Survivor 's need for cash upon their death with the ` Right Kind ' of insurance plan . Consider for example : a married insured whose Spouse relies upon their income to sustain the expenses of daily living . What is the ` Right Kind ' of Life Insurance plan and what is the ` Right Amount ' of death benefit ? Term Insurance 's disadvantage is the fact that very few deaths occur in the coverage period . Their need for income remains unprotected . Permanent plan 's disadvantage is the fact that only the wealthy can afford the face amounts required to support a Survivor 's need for lifetime income . Reversionary Annuity by design is the ` Right Kind ' of life insurance plan when Survivor Income is the need . It is much more affordable than Permanent plans and 100 % of the Surviving spouses will receive its benefit .
First I 'd like to say that your question , `` Do I need life insurance now that I 'm getting married '' is a mature question that indicates you genuinely care about your future wife and family and are an intelligent thinker ! Good on ya ! The answer to whether you need insurance or not really relies on your financial strength and goals . If you have a few million dollars in liquid assets you probably do n't NEED insurance ... but you may still WANT to have Whole Life , Cash Value life insurance . The wealthiest people in the world typically are the biggest buyers of WL insurance , because of the value it has . On the other hand there are many people who are self insured feeling that the money they have acquired is sufficient to cover the needs of their family in the event of their demise . Obviously those people do n't know what the wealthiest people know about WL insurance . So in order to determine what kind of life insurance you should consider , -LRB- there are over 10 different kinds of life insurance -RRB- , and how much is appropriate , you should consult with a life insurance professional - preferably one who is not tied to just one provider and can help you to implement the program that will be the best for you . If you would like to talk about this further you can call or email me . I 'm only licensed in Hawaii , but I 'm happy to help you with the more important questions .
Cigna health insurance plans normally cover at least a portion of the cost of hearing aids . Severe hearing loss is a health issue . There are different kinds of hearing loss and different kinds of hearing aids . Most health insurance plans have limits on the amount they will pay toward the cost of a hearing aid . Approved claims must meet specified standards for the degree of hearing loss .
The best kind of life insurance for you is the kind that meets your particular needs for your life insurance . People use life insurance for many different reasons . Some use it for final expenses , some to care for dependents , some to pay off loans , some to provide income during retirement . Once you know the purpose -LRB- s -RRB- for your policy , a good agent will help you get the most affordable policy -LRB- Term , Universal Life , an/dor Whole Life -RRB- to help meet that need .
As stated above premiums for same type and coverage for the same individual for life insurance are very similar throughout the States . So the question really becomes , `` Why are premiums for life insurance as much as they are ? '' Factors that influence the premiums include age and health of the insured , the amount of benefit being purchased , and the kind or variety of life insurance being purchased . There are at least 10 different kinds of life insurance . Typically people think of the two basic `` genres '' of life insurance : Term and Permanent . But there are a variety of policy types within those categories . If you think about it , Life Insurance is a terrific value for the money paid in ! Of course in the case of Term only the beneficiary receives the value or benefit , and that only in the case the insured dies before the term is up . In the case of Whole Life Insurance the insured can benefit greatly while alive and the beneficiary may also benefit in a significant way upon the death of the insured . Again , think of the amount of benefit versus the amount paid in .
Critical Illness Insurance is offered in the UK , South Africa , Canada , Australia and Southeast Asia . The type of products offered in these countries has some differences from that offered in the US . `` Benefit in kind '' is a term used to apply to critical illness insurance in countries other than the US . From what I can tell , this type of policy is usually considered a benefit in kind , but you would need to check with a tax consultant to be sure .
The best kind of health insurance is the kind that is best for you . There 's a difference between the most comprehensive coverage and what is most suitable -LRB- or `` best '' -RRB- for you . Under the new Affordable Care Act , there are four main benefit levels of coverage - bronze , silver , gold , and platinum . Platinum plans are going to provide the most comprehensive benefits , but will also feature the highest premiums . Not everyone will be able to afford a platinum plan , which is why bronze , silver , and gold are available as well . The idea being to reduce your premium , you take on a little more risk - meaning you 're willing to take on a higher deductible , higher coinsurance/copayment , etc. to keep your premiums down . Group coverage can provide many benefits as well , such as lower premiums -LRB- the employer contributes to a percentage of the premiums for each employees plan -RRB- - the trade-off to keep in mind is that for group plans , if you left the company or were fired , you lose the coverage . An individual plan will stay with you wherever you go . Because everyone 's needs and budgets are different as well as the plan types available to them , you need to talk to an agent about your specific situation so you can review and discuss the available options . If I can be of help , send me a private message using the `` contact me '' button .
Great question ! Accidental death is covered in all insurance policies . Dismemberment however , is not . The kind of policy that you are thinking of is often misunderstood . Some people think that it will serve as good life insurance , thinking that it will provide coverage that it usually does n't . This kind of policy does n't cover any kind of death related to illness or health issue , like cancer or stroke . The normal life insurance policy wo n't cover dismemberment , unless it results in your death . The two policies can be combined by purchasing a life insurance policy with an AD&D `` rider '' -LRB- the policy ` rides ' along on the other , bigger policy -RRB- for a little more in cost . That provides you with terrific coverage , for most any situation . If you need more information , please feel free to contact me , I 'm happy to help . Thanks for asking !
Life insurance pays a specified amount of benefits to an individual or individuals known as beneficiaries upon the death of a person , known as the insured . Typically , these benefits are used to pay final expenses of the deceased and any other unpaid bills -LRB- i.e. mortgage , auto loans , etc. -RRB- that they might have incurred during their life . There are different kinds of life insurance coverage . Some life insurance can be in force for a specified amount of time and then expire . Other kinds can build cash value , allow the policyowner to take out a loan against the policy or it can even become paid up and you 'll have it for the rest of your life and never have to make payments on it ever again . Premiums are the amount you 'll pay per month to have the coverage . This amount will vary based on the type of coverage you want , the amount of the benefit , the age of the insured , occupation , hobbies and so on . Term life coverage usually offers the lowest premuim . It provides coverage for a specified amount of time , usually 10 to 30 years and then it expires if the insured is still alive . If the insured does pass away during the coverage period , then benefits are paid to the beneficiary . Other coverages like whole life and universal insurance are generally more expensive , but depending on your long term goals , it may be a better option for you .
What kind of retirement plan is TRS ? A quick search reveals that TRS is short for teachers retirement system . These are state sponsored plans set up to provide retirement benefits for public school educators in their respective states . The plans themselves may be different in each state as well as different within each state as plans are altered at times for new hires . For example in my state there are currently three plans in action for the teachers retirement . The first was closed to new hires in 1977 and has about a 1000 teachers still working . The second was closed about a decade ago and is very different from the first and the third is still different from 1 or 2 . I expect a fourth to be introduced in the next 5 years .
There 's no one company that 's necessarily `` the best '' health insurance company.United Health Group -LRB- includes United Healthcare -RRB- is the biggest health insurance company in the United States.Wellpoint -LRB- includes Anthem -RRB- Kaiser , Aetna , Cigna , Coventry , and CareFirst are some of the other big name insurance companies in the country . However , not every company offers health plans in every state . The best kind of health insurance to get is the kind that is best for you . There 's a difference between the most comprehensive coverage and what is most suitable -LRB- or `` best '' -RRB- for you . Under the new Affordable Care Act , there are four main benefit levels of coverage - bronze , silver , gold , and platinum . Platinum plans are going to provide the most comprehensive benefits , but will also feature the highest premiums . Not everyone will be able to afford a platinum plan , which is why bronze , silver , and gold are available as well . The idea being to reduce your premium , you take on a little more risk - meaning you 're willing to take on a higher deductible , higher coinsurance/copayment , etc. to keep your premiums down . Group coverage can provide many benefits as well , such as lower premiums -LRB- the employer contributes to a percentage of the premiums for each employees plan -RRB- - the trade-off to keep in mind is that for group plans , if you left the company or were fired , you lose the coverage . An individual plan will stay with you wherever you go . Because everyone 's needs and budgets are different as well as the plan types available to them , the best thing you can do is talk to an experienced health insurance broker who can work with you on a personal level and review your specific needs and wants regarding your coverage . I hope the information is helpful - please feel free to contact me for help and if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
The best kind of health insurance is the kind that is best for you . There 's a difference between the most comprehensive coverage and what is most suitable -LRB- or `` best '' -RRB- for you . Under the new Affordable Care Act , there are four main benefit levels of coverage - bronze , silver , gold , and platinum . Platinum plans are going to provide the most comprehensive benefits , but will also feature the highest premiums . Not everyone will be able to afford a platinum plan , which is why bronze , silver , and gold are available as well . The idea being to reduce your premium , you take on a little more risk - meaning you 're willing to take on a higher deductible , higher coinsurance/copayment , etc. to keep your premiums down . You may have group coverage available to you through your employer or your spouse 's employer . Group coverage can provide many benefits as well , such as lower premiums -LRB- the employer contributes to a percentage of the premiums for each employees plan -RRB- - the trade-off to keep in mind is that for group plans , if you left the company or were fired , you lose the coverage . An individual plan will stay with you wherever you go . Because everyone 's needs and budgets are different as well as the plan types available to them , it 's very helpful to consult with an experienced broker about your specific situation so you can review and discuss the available options - we can help you figure out which plan is going to be the most suitable program for your family 's needs . Please let me know if I can be of further assistance . Thanks very much .
A Mobile Home Insurance policy is similar to a Homeowners ' in that it provides some of the same kind of coverage . It is , however , specifically designed to meet the unique needs of a Mobile Home owner . Coverage on the structure itself can be determined in many cases by the purchase price , if it is fairly new , but there are specially designed toold available to estimate ther replacement value . Some considerations that may affect pricing that are different from a Homeowners ' policy are items such as how the Mobile Home is situated . For example , what kind of tie downs are used ? Is it on a permanent foundations ? Is it in an approved park facility ? Ask if there is additional coverage available for awnings , canapies , etc. .
here is a good chance you will . Lets cover some of the what ifs : What if you need to maximize your pension distribution by taking it out during your lifetime only ? Life insurance will help you cover your spouse . What if you have any remaining debts , such as a second mortgage ? Or if you have any dependents , such as a child who still need some financial assistance ? Life insurance would protect them . What if you want a really strong guaranteed portion of your asset portfolio ? The guarantees in life insurance cash value contracts are very competitive . What if your net worth is high and you want to preserve your estate from federal and state taxation ? Life insurance would allow you to protect your assets and still pay the government . What if you have formed very strong ties with a charity , and would like to support it as a legacy ? Life insurance can turn a comparatively small premium into a very substantial gift for them . Its kind of surprising , isnt it , about how our need for life insurance can basically last our entire life !
The best kind of health insurance is the kind that is best for you . There 's a difference between the most comprehensive coverage and what is most suitable -LRB- or `` best '' -RRB- for you . Two questions that are helpful in pointing you in the right direction to find the plan type that 's best for you are : 1 -RRB- do you want the most comprehensive coverage you can get or are you willing to take on a larger share of the risk/costs to keep your premiums down ? 2 -RRB- what is your budget ? maximum dollar you 're willing to spend ? Under the new Affordable Care Act , there are four main benefit levels - bronze , silver , gold , and platinum . Platinum plans are going to provide the most comprehensive benefits , but will also feature the highest premiums . Not everyone will be able to afford a platinum plan , which is why bronze , silver , and gold are available as well . The idea being to reduce your premium , you take on a little more risk - meaning you 're willing to take on a higher deductible , higher coinsurance/copayment , etc. to keep your premiums down . You may also want to see if group coverage is available through your employer . Group coverage can provide many benefits as well , such as lower premiums -LRB- the employer contributes to a percentage of the premiums for each employees plan -RRB- - the trade-off to keep in mind is that for group plans , if you left the company or youremploymentwas terminated , you lose the coverage . Anindividual plan will stay with you wherever you go . It 's always helpful to consult with an experienced broker regarding your coverage . We have in-depth knowledge of products from multiple carriers and work on a personal level with our clients and help them find the coverage that will best serve their needs . Let me know if you have any other questions . Thanks very much !
The best kind of health insurance is the kind that is best for you . There 's a difference between the most comprehensive coverage and what is most suitable -LRB- or `` best '' -RRB- for you . Two questions that are helpful in pointing you in the right direction to find the plan type that 's best for you are : 1 -RRB- do you want the most comprehensive coverage you can get or are you willing to take on a larger share of the risk/costs to keep your premiums down ? 2 -RRB- what is your budget ? maximum dollar you 're willing to spend ? Under the new Affordable Care Act , there are four main benefit levels - bronze , silver , gold , and platinum . Platinum plans are going to provide the most comprehensive benefits , but will also feature the highest premiums . Not everyone will be able to afford a platinum plan , which is why bronze , silver , and gold are available as well . The idea being to reduce your premium , you take on a little more risk - meaning you 're willing to take on a higher deductible , higher coinsurance/copayment , etc. to keep your premiums down . You may also want to see if group coverage is available through your employer . Group coverage can provide many benefits as well , such as lower premiums -LRB- the employer contributes to a percentage of the premiums for each employees plan -RRB- - the trade-off to keep in mind is that for group plans , if you left the company or your employement was terminated , you lose the coverage . An individual plan will stay with you wherever you go . It 's always helpful to consult with an experienced broker regarding your coverage . We have in-depth knowledge of products from multiple carriers and work on a personal level with our clients and help them find the coverage that will best serve their needs . Let me know if you have any other questions . Thanks very much !
end question
start question
retirement-plans
How To Roll Over 401K To Roth IRA ?
A 401 -LRB- k -RRB- is funded with before tax contributions . Income tax has not been paid on either the amount contributed to the plan , the employers contribution if any , or the gain the plan has realized . That income tax would need to be paid if the 401 -LRB- k -RRB- were rolled into a Roth IRA . The preferred method for any roll-over is a direct , trustee to trustee exchange . If you accept your 401 -LRB- k -RRB- in cash you must roll-over the amount quickly and carefully . See a licensed insurance agent to accomplish this roll-over .
That is a great question . Rolling over a traditional tax qualified 401K account to a Roth IRA would generate taxes and penalties so the benefit would certainly not be the tax savings , now would it ? A 401K converion transfer is called a Roth Conversion . There is a conversion option that might work and we call it a `` backdoor Roth IRA '' and it might provide some advantages but will require several steps and tax computations and may not be appropriate for you based on the information provided . Your best answer would be to consult with a local agency to learn more about how this conversion tactics might benefit you in a Roth IRA .
As long as your company allows roll overs into their retirement plan , you can roll your 403b money into that 401k plan . One exception may be if you have previously comingled your 403b funds with another IRA . Your company 401k plan administrator should be able to answer your specific questions . You can also roll your 403b into a traditional IRA or Roth IRA . Here is a link to an IRS rollover chart which shows all the directions retirement money can move . WEBSITELINK
How do you get your 401k after leaving your job ? Usually you would contact your HR department and see what steps they may require for processing your account . What is important to the situation is what is your plan for those 401k monies . Are you going to roll them over into your new employers plan ? Are you going to roll them over into an individual IRA ? Are you going to convert them to a Roth IRA ? or are you going to take the tax hit and cash your retirement out ?
Why roll over a 401k into a Roth IRA ? Well I ca n't honestly think of a good answer to do this . In order to do this transfer , if you qualify for a Roth in the first place , would require you to cash out your 401k and combined with your current income , might place you in a higher tax bracket , as well as the extra 10 % penalty for early redemption , and possible redemption fees from the 401k as well . So you might be looking at a `` loss '' of anywhere from 35-45 % of the value of your 401k just from taxes and early redemption penalties . What you would have to figure is how many years would it take you to get back to even ? That would include this loss and the loss of gain years spent getting back to even . How about if you qualify , owning both ? Use new money for your Roth . Yes , it will be taxed , but it wo n't be taxed , penalized and require years to recover the market loss . Have both .
Yes , it is possible to have a 401k and a Roth IRA at the same time . They are completely separate accounts . If you are contributing to your 401k at work -LRB- and hopefully there is a company `` match '' as well -RRB- , you can also contribute to your own Roth IRA outside of work . When it comes time to start drawing on these two different retirement funds , the money taken out of your 401k will be taxable at that years ' ordinary income tax level . You will be assessed a 10 % early withdrawal penalty if you do not wait until age 591/2 to begin your withdrawals . There are a handful of exceptions that can allow you to begin withdrawals from your 401k prior to age 591/2 . Beginning April 1 of the year following the year in which you turn age 701/2 , you are required to begin Required Minimum Withdrawals from your 401k . Talk to your CPA about how this is calculated . Roth IRA 's require that you or your spouse have earned income and your adjusted gross income can not exceed certain levels . The contributions you made to your Roth IRA can be withdrawn at any time , tax free because you have already paid tax on this money . However , in order to withdraw your earnings from your Roth IRA account tax and penalty free , you must be at least 591/2 years old and the contributions to your Roth IRA must have been made at least 5 years before the withdrawal date . If you withdraw your Roth IRA earnings earlier than 5 years after the contributions , the earnings would not be considered a qualified distribution . The calculation on the `` 5 years '' is not quite as straight forward as you would think looking at a calendar and you should discuss this withdrawal with a qualified financial professional .
Can you rollover your 401k to a roth ira ? Not really no , there is no provision that allows you to roll the values in your 401k into a Roth without tax penalties . If you did something like this you would need to cash out your 401k which would be taxed at an income tax level combined with your current income , along with a 10 % penalty . So you would be losing roughly 40 % or more of you 401k values . Not something easily made up no matter how good an investment picker you might be .
Yes , you can have a Roth IRA and a 401k . Your employer needs to offer a 401k plan . Having both a Roth IRA and 401k can be a great strategy for increasing your retirement income . If your employer is providing a match for your 401k , that 's even better . A Roth IRA -LRB- Individual Retirement Arrangement -RRB- is a retirement plan that is generally not taxed provided certain conditions are met . If you satisfy the requirements , qualified distributions are tax free . Here are the basic rules of a Roth IRA : No age restrictions for contribution or distribution Maximum income allowed for 2014 to participate is $ 129,000 single and the head of household , $ 191,000 joint filers Earned income must be or greater than your Roth IRA contributions Tax free growth you pay no taxes when you make qualified withdrawals after age 59 and your account has been open at least five years Maximum contribution $ 5500 -LRB- $ 6500 if you are 50 or older -RRB- You should consult with a qualified financial professional when considering financial products and strategies for retirement income .
There is one circumstance that I am aware of that will allow you to roll a 401 -LRB- k -RRB- balance to a Roth IRA without the associated taxes and penalties . If your 401 -LRB- k -RRB- plan has a Roth option , which is becoming more common , then you can roll the Roth portion of the 401 -LRB- k -RRB- to a Roth IRA . I actually just did this for a client who had a 401 -LRB- k -RRB- balance that had two balances , one Roth and one traditional . We created two Rollover IRA accounts , one Roth and one traditional and completed the rollover .
A 401K and a Roth IRA are quite different . The 401K plan is employer sponsored and may include matching funds from the employer . The limits to how much can be placed in the 401K are much higher . The amount you put into the 401K is untaxed income but fully taxed when the plan starts making distributions . All distributions incur income tax , and early distributions could be subject to a tax penalty . The Roth IRA is an individual plan that is restricted to people whose income is below a prescribed level . The contributions to the plan are made with after tax dollars ; however , the distribution at retirement is income tax free . Some companies do offer a Roth 401K , which is a marriage of the two plans . Contributions are made with after tax dollars but distributions are income tax free when received after age 59.5 .
That is a great question ! Once you have started a retirement plan , it remains yours , whether you are with the company or not . They will no longer make contributions to it , and now you wo n't either , so it will sit there in limbo , and grow slowly . Contact your HR person , or plan administrator if you do not know which financial institution is managing the fund , so you can figure out what you want to do . You may be able to roll it into your new employer 's 401k plan , if they offer one . You may be able to roll it into a Roth IRA plan that you establish . If you consider taking the cash from it , be aware that it will be heavily taxed , and you will pay a penalty for removing the cash - plan on giving away at least a third of it , okay ? I hope that helps , contact me with questions if you have them , and thanks for asking !
An IRA is a qualified retirement plan . It can be rolled over to another IRA or if you 're willing to pay the ordinary income tax in the year of transfer , a Roth IRA . Many plan participants roll over their company qualified plans into on IRA when they terminate their employment .
The appropriate answer here is '' anywhere you want to invest your 401k assets . '' I mean who are you ? What are your goals ? What have you been investing your 401k in ? How can any adviser tell you where to invest after retirement without knowing you ? Sorry , but I think this is a dumb question . Usually , people roll 401k assets over into an IRA . Some employers allow you to stay put and keep your current investments .
There are important reasons why you would be interested in having a Roth IRA . Participation is restricted by income which results in many people who really need the benefits of a Roth IRA being unable to open an account . You probably appreciate that the Roth IRA pays benefits after age 59.5 that can be received income tax free . Other qualified plans tax the entire distribution as current income . Unlike a traditional IRA , 403 -LRB- b -RRB- , 401 -LRB- k -RRB- and other plans there arent any mandatory distributions at age 70.5 . These mandatory distributions are fully taxable as ordinary income . The Roth IRA also provides tax benefits that would pass to beneficiaries should you die prior to exhausting your Roth IRA . If you decide to use the funds in the IRA for educational expenses , for a child or yourself , there isnt the 10 % penalty tax assessed as there is in the case of the traditional IRA . You can use the funds for helping in the event of a disability , or use the money for a first-time home purchase , without penalty or tax if the plan has been in effect for more than five years . An easy way to invest in a Roth IRA is to open a regular IRA and when you are done making contributions , convert it to a Roth IRA . You would be taxed on the value of the traditional IRA as though it were current income , however , with some planning you could probably arrange for that to have the same impact that you would have experienced with making the Roth IRA contributions currently . If you have an employer sponsored plan you should contact the plan administrator and tell them that you want a Roth option for their plan . This is not unusual in 401 -LRB- k -RRB- and 403 -LRB- b -RRB- plans . The money could be invested in a Roth 403 -LRB- b -RRB- for example and receive the same treatment as the Roth IRA . The contribution limits would be much higher . The employer might consider this plan particularly advantageous to the more highly compensated employees , but it is a great benefit for all employees . The Third Party Administrator for your employers sponsored plan probably has the language already prepared to institute a Roth option . The fact that so few plans offer a Roth option is due to poor communications . This should be an option that your employer would favor . Your senior people will love the option . It would be a great benefit for all the employees . A permanent life insurance policy has many of the same characteristics of the Roth IRA . Much like the Roth IRA the premiums are paid with after tax dollars . There isnt any current tax deduction for the deposit . In the same way the life insurance policy and Roth IRA provide for a tax deferred -LRB- and ultimately tax-free -RRB- accumulation of cash inside the policy . With the life insurance policy there isnt any restriction on borrowing the money from the cash value . The careful use of loans can result in recovering the cash value without paying income tax . Universal life insurance policies and variable life insurance policies have the ability to accumulate significant amounts of money in this way . Unlike the Roth IRA there arent any income restrictions to participating in a life insurance policy . There isnt a restriction on the amount that you put into the plan . Contributions are at your discretion . Of course the life insurance policy is also self-completing should you die before reaching withdrawing benefits . The variable life insurance policies also afford a person with the option of selecting a mix of security based solutions that will rise and fall with the market . Again , this is similar to some of the investment characteristics found in Roth IRA vehicles .
Yes , you can contribute to a 401k and IRA in the same year . If your employer is providing a match for your 401k , it might be a good strategy to put in enough to qualify for the full employer match before contributing to an IRA . There are income qualifying rules for the traditional IRA . For married filing jointly or qualifying widow -LRB- er -RRB- and your modified adjusted gross income -LRB- MAGI -RRB- is less than $ 181,000 you can contribute up to $ 5500 -LRB- over age 50 the contribution limit is $ 6500 -RRB- . If your MAGI is between $ 181,000 and $ 191,000 your contribution amount is reduced . For single , head of household or married filing separately and you did not live with your spouse at any time during the year , if your MAGI is less that $ 114,000 you can contribute up to $ 5500 -LRB- over age 50 the contribution limit is $ 6500 -RRB- . If your MAGI is between $ 114,000 and $ 129,000 your contribution amount is reduced . Traditional IRAs have a maximum age contribution limit of 70 and you must begin Required Minimum Distributions -LRB- RMDs -RRB- by April 1 of the year following the year in which you turned age 70 . Roth IRAs have no age limits for contribution and have no RMD at age 70 . This could mean you have two RMDs in the same year . If you or your spouse participates in an employer sponsored retirement plan such as a 401k , the ability to deduct a contribution to a traditional IRA hinges on what your MAGI is on your tax return along with your filing status . There are some rather complicated formulas that relate to this and you should definitely seek advice from your tax preparer on anything tax related . As always , you should consult with a qualified financial professional when considering financial products and strategies for retirement income .
A 401 -LRB- k -RRB- is funded with before tax contributions . Income tax has not been paid on either the amount contributed to the plan , the employers contribution if any , or the gain the plan has realized . That income tax would need to be paid if the 401 -LRB- k -RRB- were rolled into a Roth IRA . The preferred method for any roll-over is a direct , trustee to trustee exchange . If you accept your 401 -LRB- k -RRB- in cash you must roll-over the amount quickly and carefully . See a licensed insurance agent to accomplish this roll-over .
A Roth 401k is a designated Roth account . A designated Roth account is a feature in new or existing 401k , 403b or 457b plans that permit such plans to accept designated Roth contributions . The combined amount you can contribute to all designated Roth accounts in any one year for an individual under 50 years of age is $ 17,500 for 2014 . If you are age 50 or older by the end of 2014 , you can add an additional $ 5,500 in catch-up contributions . You can also contribute to both a Roth 401k and a Roth IRA in the same year which can increase the total contribution amount by $ 6,500 if you are 50 or older .
The Roth IRA is designed to supplement retirement income . Since retirement can extend 20 to 30 years past retirement additional income is often needed . Many experts say youll need 70 to 100 per cent of your pre-retirement income in retirement . Inflation will erode the buying power of your retirement income and must be considered . Pension plans may not replace the amount of pre-retirement income necessary . The taxation on pension benefits and traditional IRA accounts can also erode the buying power of these qualified pension plans . A Roth IRA is made with after-tax money . There arent any age limits on participation and they can be paid in addition to contributions made to your employer-sponsored plan . Contributions can be made on behalf of a non-working spouse . Regular adjusted gross income limits apply . The Roth IRA premium is coordinated with traditional IRA premiums and is reduced at higher adjusted gross income levels . Currently the maximum contribution possible to a Roth IRA is $ 5.500 when you are under age 50 and $ 6,500 per year when you are 50 years old and older . When a Roth IRA is more than five years old it can be used for retirement , tax-free . After five years the Roth IRA can be passed to heirs tax-free . You can use the money in a Roth IRA at any time for qualified education expenses without the normal 10 % early distribution penalty tax . You can withdraw up to the total of your payments without income tax or the additional 10 percent penalty tax . With a Roth IRA you have access to your earnings . You can withdraw earnings income tax free and without the additional 10 penalty tax if you have had the Roth IRA for at least five years and are over 59.5 years , disabled or are using the money for a first-time home purchase . It pays to start your Roth IRA as early as possible and fund it as fully as possible . Because all gain in the Roth IRA is not currently taxed there is a significant compounded rate of return . This will help develop your financial well-being . One of the key considerations is taxation . With a Roth IRA contributions are made with after-tax dollars . The money received in retirement is paid in tax free dollars . If you are currently in a very high tax bracket , the Roth IRA might not be the best choice , however , if you are in a fairly low tax bracket you will find that receiving the money tax free in retirement makes good sense . Most retirement programs are subject to mandatory distributions that start at age seventy and a half . These force you take money out of a plan and pay current income tax . A Roth IRA is not subject to a mandatory distribution and that inconvenience and expense is not required . In the final analysis , tax-free money is great . By carefully planning expenditures you can use the tax-free money to keep you in a lower tax bracket in retirement and potentially save a great deal of money . The money in your other pension plans is actually jointly held by you and the government . With the Roth IRA , it is all yours .
The company providing the Roth IRA should be able to support you fully in the process of rolling a 401 -LRB- k -RRB- . Make sure that you understand the tax implications . It is preferable to allow the company that is going to end up with the funds to initiate the roll-over . There are many problems if you start with your 401 -LRB- k -RRB- plan administrator as they are required to inform the IRS of any withdrawal from the plan . It is better if the proceeds pass from the current plan administrator to the company providing the Roth IRA
Hi , that is a good question which many people get confused about . NO , you can not roll your 401 -LRB- k -RRB- directly to a Roth IRA . You first have to roll it into a traditional IRA . Then you may convert some or all of the balance into a Roth IRA . Remember you will have to pay taxes on the converted amount . There are strategies which can help pay for those taxes if you choose and if the strategy makes sense . Feel free to reach out to me if you have further questions . Merry Christmas . Matt
end question
start question
life-insurance
Can You Get A Life Insurance Policy On Anyone ?
No , in order to get a life insurance policy on someone else , you need to have an insurable interest in them . To put it another way , their death must cause you financial hardship in order for you to receive money for their death . If the other person is a close relative , just the emotional impact of their death is considered insurable interest , to a point .
No , not really . In order to take out a life insurance policy on someone , you must have an `` insurable interest '' in that person . In a partnership business situation , for example , insurable interest is shared between the partners . Since the business would be affected by the passing of any partner , most likely having a financial impact , partners can arrange life insurance protection on each other to mitigate that impact should anyone die prematurely .
Anyone can use an annuity . If you 're asking who is most likely to benefit most from an annuity that answer would be anyone who needs a stable , predictable , and reliable income stream . Another type of person who benefits from owning an annuity is anyone who believes they will live a long time as annuities can provide income that lasts for ones lifetime even if the income stream is more than the initial money in the annuity .
Medical coverage covers anyone getting into your car , getting out of your car or in the car if you are involved in an accident and they are hurt . For example , a person is getting out of your car and falls and breaks an arm ; a person hand is caught in a car door and requires medical treatment . The most common however is when you are involved in an accident . Anyone in your car is covered up to the medical pay limits on your policy .
Why should anyone buy life insurance on a newborn baby ? That 's probably the 1st question anyone would ask when the subject is brought up . I can think of a couple good reasons right off the top of my head . 1 -RRB- should the baby die the last thing anyone would want would be to have the costs of a funeral added to the burden of grief ! 2 -RRB- Whole life insurance is a really great way to begin a savings fund for the child that will grow tax-free and at a much faster rate than any savings , CD or money market account . And the money can be available for college funding or a first car when the time comes !
The easy answer for this would be `` Anyone you give permission to drive your vehicle . '' The exception to this would be anyone who is specifically excluded from your insurance policy . For example , a client of mine has a 17 year old son . Their son had a valid learners permit and went through the process of completing Drivers Ed , but never took the final exam and was never issued a license . Even though his permit has expired , based on his age and the fact that he had a permit , I recommended to my client they included him on their policy , but list him as an excluded driver . Because he is excluded , the insurance company does not rate him on the policy , and the premium did not increase . Outside of their son , anyone they give permission to drive their car would be covered , even if the person who borrowed the vehicle did not have their own insurance policy . You do run the risk of increased monthly premium payments should an uninsured driver borrow your car with your permission and be involved in an accident where they are liable however . So be careful of who and how often you do lend your vehicle out .
We have life insurance because we love . If there is anyone that would suffer at your passing , life insurance could ease the pain and assist in the transition . We need life insurance because we borrow money . Lenders often ask customers to assign life insurance benefits to secure a loan . We need life insurance if we want to leave a lasting impression on society . If there is a charity that excites you , a gift at your passing might be a significant boost to their activities . If you dont love anyone , dont owe anything and could care less about society , you are probably not a candidate for life insurance .
Yes you can apply for life insurance online . The life insurance industry is going through a very trying transition right now . The average career life insurance agent right now is over 50 years of age and the total number of agents is quickly declining . This is happening because more people like you are looking for life insurance online . The important thing for anyone who is a just starting the life insurance process to consider is that your buying experience will certainly be very different if you buy life insurance online versus contacting a local agent . Not better or worse , but different . Thinking about how you prefer to do business may help you decide which route to take . Are you part of the connected generation ? If your average day includes texting and Skype or FaceTime you will be perfectly comfortable buying your life insurance online . Do n't be concerned that you will be stuck with some impersonal call center . There are plenty of great online insurance agents that provide personal service . The only difference between them and your local agent is that your communication will be via your smart phone , not in person . If you 're not into the latest technology and you feel that personal interaction requires a handshake , you probably wo n't be comfortable getting life insurance online . You may find the process cold and impersonal . Do n't worry . Even though they 're getting older , there are plenty of great local life insurance agents that will give you advice and personal service your way . Many of them still make house calls and transact business over your kitchen table . The most important thing is not where you get life insurance , it 's that you do get life insurance . Good luck to you whichever route you choose :-RRB-
Anyone who has someone relying on them for financial support should have Disability Insurance . Becoming disabled for a period of time is not uncommon , and it can happen at any age . Very few families can get by on one income , and even single persons can lose their life 's savings through an extended disability . Becoming disabled generally does not just take away income for a period of months or years , it comes with medical bills and other extra expenses connected to the cause of disability . That is why anyone who makes and relies on making an income should buy Disability Insurance , in my opinion .
You can ask your parents or grandparents . If they do not have life insurance on you , and you have not signed an application as the Insured for anyone else , it is doubtful that anyone has a policy on you . Life insurance requires the consent of the insured person , if the Insured is an adult . And that consent nearly always requires that the Insured signs the application .
Whole Life and Universal Life are the two main types of permanent insurance coverage -LRB- there are sub-categories with in that - e.g. guaranteed universal life , current assumption universal life , indexed universal life , participating whole life , non-participating whole life , and others -RRB- . Permanent life insurance , in general , is designed to provide coverage for the rest of the insured 's life and build cash value . Universal life insurance features a flexible premium structure It 's , in short , a blend between term life insurance and whole life insurance . A universal life policy will guarantee the maximum death benefit for the lowest possible premium -LRB- making it much less expensive than a whole life policy with the same death benefit -RRB- . Like with whole life insurance , universal life will build cash value , although it will generally not accumulate as much cash value over the life of the policy as a comparable whole life policy it is essentially term insurance to age 121 , with the emphasis on a larger death benefit instead of greater cash value for the premium that you are paying . Universal life is ideal for anyone who wants to maximize the death benefit and is n't worried about building cash value . You can guarantee benefits up to age 121 -LRB- with most companies -RRB- - these policies can be structured to dial down the death benefit to a specific age as well -LRB- e.g. to age 90 , 95 , 100 , 105 , etc. -RRB- , which can reduce your premium by a good margin . Whole life insurance is a great vehicle for planning for the future . The premiums and death benefit remain fixed and guaranteed for life while the policy can build cash value at a great rate - this structure is known as a non-participating whole life policy . The other type is called participating whole life policy . Participating WL policies can pay out dividends which can be used in several ways : 1 -RRB- Decrease the premium - the premium would eventually hit $ 0 at some point and the policy would , in essence , be self-sustaining meaning the dividend is equal to or greater than the premium for the program -LRB- if greater , the difference can be used to increase the cash value or increase the death benefit -RRB- 2 -RRB- Purchasing paid-up additions - these additions increase the face amount of the policy 3 -RRB- Increase the cash value at a faster rate While whole life has many advantages , it is also the most expensive form of life insurance . Whole life features level premiums and death benefits and builds cash value at a faster rate than Universal life policies - the trade off between is that to increase the cash value faster , the premiums will be substantially higher -LRB- can often be 2-3x the premiums of guaranteed universal life policies on many occasions -RRB- . Please note , regardless of the permanent coverage type , the carrier takes back the cash value upon the death of the insured , and pays out the death benefit proceeds . Therefore , guaranteed Universal life policies allow you to maximize your death benefit and minimize your premium dollars that you pay for the coverage . I hope the information is helpful - please feel free to contact me for assistance with your life insurance coverage needs , including quotes and policy comparisons , and if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
Life insurance should be owned by anyone with a family or business , which has any current financial liabilities , future obligations or wants to make a difference through legacy or charitable giving . Permanent life insurance should be owned by anyone who is seeking tax advantaged supplemental retirement income that has a long term commitment to keep the permanent life insurance policy in force for the life of the insured .
The simplest way to think ofhealth insurance exchanges is think of them like a Walmart , Target , Cosco , Kroger , etc. or even more similar - Amazon.com.Thehealth exchange is an online place to shop for health insurance , where insurance companies -LRB- like Blue Cross , Humana , UnitedOne , etc -RRB- can elect to have their health plans available for enrollmentSome states have their own exchanges in which they received federal dollars to operate , while other states opted for the federal government to handle the exchange through healthcare.gov . Just as anyone can walk into a Walmart or log on to Amazon.com , anyone can log on to an exchange and shop for health insurance . The plans on the exchange may be limited in the number of doctors & hospitals in the network in order to save premium dollars . For example , in TN , BCBS launched their `` E '' network , which has roughly 5000 providers state wide , where their other networks have ~ 45,000 & ~ 55,000 providers . The premiums for the `` E '' network are significantly lower . An insurance company may have addition plans available if you purchase directly through them . This is typically called off-marketplace , while enrolling through the exchange is on-marketplace . So ... if you had more choices off-marketplace , why would anyone want to enroll in a plan through the marketplace/health insurance exchange ? You can only obtain the government premium subsidy through the exchange . In other words , depending on your income , you could pay less through the marketplace . When you register , for example at healthcare.gov , there will be an opportunity for you to input your income from the previous year . If you are under 400 % -LRB- about $ 44k for individual -RRB- you could qualify for the subsidy , reducing the premium you would have to pay for your plan . After the insurance company receives your part of the payment , the insurance company tells the government you have paid & then the government pays the subsidy , so you get immediate relief . One final thought ... open enrollment ended 03/31 , so unless you have lost coverage involuntarily or had another qualifying event , you would be ineligible to enroll in individual health insurance until the next open enrollment .
Maybe there are different rules in other states , but according to the insurance manual I studied for my insurance producer license the Owner of the policy may assign ANYone they choose to be their Beneficiary . It can be a family member or a friend . It can be a charity or the homeless guy at the park , -LRB- as long as you know his name and he can identify himself positively -RRB- . In order to buy insurance on someone you must have an insurable interest , but the owner of an insurance policy may name anyone they want as the beneficiary .
There is life insurance for veterans provided by the VA called VGLI -LRB- Veterans Group Life Insurance -RRB- . However , it must be purchased shortly after separation from the service . If getting a private policy , a veteran can get any life insurance policy that anyone else can get , as long and age and health guidelines are met .
Whole Life and Universal Life are the two main types of permanent insurance coverage -LRB- there are sub-categories with in that - e.g. guaranteed universal life , current assumption universal life , indexed universal life , participating whole life , non-participating whole life , and others -RRB- . Permanent life insurance , in general , is designed to provide coverage for the rest of the insured 's life and build cash value . Universal life insurance features a flexible premium structure It 's , in short , a blend between term life insurance and whole life insurance . A universal life policy will guarantee the maximum death benefit for the lowest possible premium -LRB- making it much less expensive than a whole life policy with the same death benefit -RRB- . Like with whole life insurance , universal life will build cash value , although it will generally not accumulate as much cash value over the life of the policy as a comparable whole life policy it is essentially term insurance to age 121 , with the emphasis on a larger death benefit instead of greater cash value for the premium that you are paying . Universal life is ideal for anyone who wants to maximize the death benefit and is n't worried about building cash value . You can guarantee benefits up to age 121 -LRB- with most companies -RRB- - these policies can be structured to dial down the death benefit to a specific age as well -LRB- e.g. to age 90 , 95 , 100 , 105 , etc. -RRB- , which can reduce your premium by a good margin . Whole life insurance is a great vehicle for planning for the future . The premiums and death benefit remain fixed and guaranteed for life while the policy can build cash value at a great rate - this structure is known as a non-participating whole life policy . The other type is called participating whole life policy . Participating WL policies can pay out dividends which can be used in several ways : 1 -RRB- Decrease the premium - the premium would eventually hit $ 0 at some point and the policy would , in essence , be self-sustaining meaning the dividend is equal to or greater than the premium for the program -LRB- if greater , the difference can be used to increase the cash value or increase the death benefit -RRB- 2 -RRB- Purchasing paid-up additions - these additions increase the face amount of the policy 3 -RRB- Increase the cash value at a faster rate While whole life has many advantages , it is also the most expensive form of life insurance . Whole life features level premiums and death benefits and builds cash value at a faster rate than Universal life policies - the trade off between is that to increase the cash value faster , the premiums will be substantially higher -LRB- can often be 2-3x the premiums of guaranteed universal life policies on many occasions -RRB- . Please note , regardless of the permanent coverage type , the carrier takes back the cash value upon the death of the insured , and pays out the death benefit proceeds . Therefore , guaranteed Universal life policies allow you to maximize your death benefit and minimize your premium dollars that you pay for the coverage . I hope the information is helpful - please feel free to contact me for assistance with your coverage and if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
Many life insurance policies expire . If you have a policy that you must drop then the proper time to do that is when you no longer love anyone . Or when you no longer owe anyone money . Or when you no longer want to make a difference in this world . You certainly do not want to drop a policy if your health is declining , or when there are still loose ends in your estate .
To expand a bit ... Life insurance proceeds are among a class of assets that `` pass by contract '' at death ; in this case , the contract is the insurance policy with its beneficiary designation . -LRB- Other assets that pass by contract include IRAs / Qualified Retirement Plans , annuities , jointly-owned bank or investment accounts , etc. -RRB- Assets that do n't pass to a beneficiary by operation of a contract are subject to probate , which is where a will comes in . It is possible to have the proceeds of a life insurance policy be distributed according to the terms of a will by naming the insured 's estate as the policy beneficiary -LRB- e.g. Beneficiary : Estate of the Insured -RRB- . However , doing so is generally avoided because of the disadvantages inherent in the probate process : During probate , a will is subject to being challenged by anyone with standing -LRB- generally , anyone who can prove a relationship to the deceased -RRB- . A beneficiary designation is n't subject to those types of challenges . Assets of the probate estate are subject to the claims of creditors of the estate ; life insurance proceeds paid to the insured 's estate may get depleted to repay debts before the intended heirs receive any benefit . The probate process is a public court proceeding , andcan be lengthy . A life insurance death benefit claim involves only the beneficiary and the insurance company , and claims are generally paid very quickly - often within two weeks .
Do you love anyone ? Will your premature death have a bad effect on anyone ? Do you have financial obligations that will need attention ? Is there someone you want to benefit ? Of course , there are other questions , but these address the basic issues . If there is love in your life , you probably need life insurance ; it is the only way to ease the pain that would come to those who love you were you to meet a premature death .
The answer to this question depends upon state law . In California all the drivers in the household , regardless of their age are included in the policy . The policy covers the car . The car is attached to a household . Unless excluded anyone in the household can operate any vehicle covered . In fact , anyone can operate any vehicle -LRB- provided that they have permission and are licensed drivers . -RRB-
end question
start question
retirement-plans
What Is The Retirement Plan For Government Employees ?
The is the federal employees retirement system for federal government employees and state government retirement plans like the Arizona State Retirement System and Public Safety Personnel Retirement System of Arizona in Arizona . Most of these plans are defined benefit retirement plans , but some offer defined contribution plans , which are becoming more popular .
A private health insurance exchange is a private sector counterpart to the Federal Government run or state run health insurance exchanges created as a centerpiece of ObamaCare . A private health insurance exchange or marketplace as is now the preferred term , is generally going to be an employer based program that offers multiple health insurance plan options to its employees . There are variations on the private health insurance marketplace theme . Some are built around the offering of individual health insurance plans from one or a number of different health insurance carriers . Others are built around one group insurance carrier that offers a variety of different plan designs at varying price points for employees to choose from . Still some others are large enough that more than one group health insurance carrier is electing to participate and offer a selection of health insurance plans , so in this last example you could have plans from Humana , United Healthcare and CIGNA all being offered alongside each other thus giving employees an even broader selection of plan designs and perhaps provider networks to choose from . In some cases there can be integration between a private exchanges and the government based exchanges . This is most commonly found in private exchanges built around offering individual health insurance plans . This can then allow for employees who would qualify for subsidies through the government health insurance exchanges to enroll in those plans while employees who do not qualify for subsidies can enroll in health insurance plans offered outside of the government exchanges . Another advantage that private exchanges can have over their government based counterparts is that they can offer a wide array of other employee or individual insurance options such as dental , vision , life , disability , critical illness , cancer and accident insurance . Some private exchanges can even extend the one stop shopping concept to auto , homeowners and other property & casualty based insurance products.The government health marketplaces are currently limited to health insurance and some dental insurance options . If you are interested in learning about whether a private health insurance exchange might be the right solution for your employee benefit needs please feel free to contact me .
Your question is a common one these days . It may be a subtle distinction but I 'm a firm believer in being clear on our terminology . Many employers and employees think that the Affordable Care Act -LRB- ObamaCare -RRB- legally requires employers to provide health insurance to their employees . This is not the case . In fact , ObamaCare may possibly have the result of reducing the number of employers who provide health insurance for their employees . Only time will tell on this issue . What the Affordable Care Act does is provide a mixture of incentives and penalties to employers regarding their choice as to whether to offer group health insurance to their employees . At the current time you need to subdivide the employer marketplace into three different segments and understand how the law applies to each one in the coming years . 1 -RRB- The small group market -LRB- 2 to 49 employees -RRB- - for companies of this size there is a possible incentive in the form of a tax credit to encourage employers to offer health insurance to their employees . THERE ARE NO TAX PENALTIES FOR EMPLOYERS IN THIS SIZE RANGE WHO DO NOT OFFER GROUP HEALTH INSURANCE TO THEIR EMPLOYEES . As with many aspects of the Affordable Care Act , even the availability and value of the tax credit is confusing and ends up being of little or no value to most small employers . First , the employer will have to purchase group health coverage through the SHOP program of the government health marketplace in their state in order to qualify for the tax credit of 50 % of what the employer contributes towards employee coverage . This may significantly reduce the employer 's options . For instance , here in Tennessee , only one group health insurance carrier has chosen to participate in the SHOP program in 2014 . So your choice is Blue Cross/Blue Shield in that case . The employer may find significantly less expensive group plan options from other insurance companies outside of the SHOP program . Next , the tax credit really only applies to groups of up to 24 employees and actually maxes out for groups with 10 or fewer employees , plus your average workforce wage has to be below $ 50,000 / year . And , the tax credit can only be claimed for two consecutive tax years . For these reasons the tax `` incentives '' provide little real incentive for most small employers to use the SHOP program and the SHOP program has done little to increase competition in most states . 2 -RRB- Groups with 50 to 99 employees - originally groups in this size range were to be subject to the Employer Mandate on January 1 , 2014 . However , the Obama administration delayed implementation of the employer mandate for groups of this size until January 1 , 2016 . So , while there are some issues employers in this size range need to be aware of and planning for , in most ways the status quo remains unchanged for employers in this size range . 3 -RRB- Employers with 100 or more Full Time/Full Time Equivalent employees - for employers who fall into this category the Employer Mandate provision was delayed only until January 1 , 2015 . After that date employers in this size range who offer no health insurance to their employees will be subject to a tax penalty of $ 2000 per employee if at least one of their employees purchases individual health insurance through the government health insurance marketplace and receives a premium tax subsidy . A second tax penalty situation is created for employers who offer health insurance to their employees which is deemed unaffordable under the terms of the Affordable Care Act -LRB- the cost to the employee must exceed 9.5 % of their W2 income -RRB- . In this circumstance the employer is subject to a tax penalty of $ 3000 for each employee who enrolls for individual coverage in the government health insurance marketplace and receives a premium tax subsidy . To make the tax penalties a bit more punitive , they will not be a deductible business expense . At first glance these potential tax penalties might appear to many to be a strong incentive for larger employers to provide health insurance to their employees . But , in practical terms , the tax penalties are often far less expensive than providing group health insurance especially in light of the additional coverage requirements of the Affordable Care Act that are driving health insurance rates up even further . So , no employer has to provide health insurance to their employees . And for larger employers it is simply a decision as to whether to bear the cost of providing group health insurance or paying a tax penalty .
What do you mean by government health insurance ? If you are asking about a government health insurance plan such as Medicaid then I guess you could say it 's cheap as that is a program for the poor for which they do n't really pay anything . If you are asking about health insurance for Federal government employees they have many health insurance plan options at different price points to choose from . I do n't think many government employees think their health insurance is cheap even though their coverage is largely paid for by the government . Certainly in comparison to most of their peers in private sector companies these days most government employees pay less for their health insurance coverage .
Before 1984 , Members of Congress received pensions that were based upon the Civil Service Retirement System . This is the same system used by other Federal employees . Members of Congress did not participate in the Social Security system . They were not eligible for social security benefits based upon their pay as Members of Congress . In 1983 Members of Congress and other federal employees , who were first hired after 1983 , were integrated into the Social Security System . Starting in 1984 all Members of Congress started participating in the Social Security System regardless of when they first entered Congress . Only those on the federal payroll prior to 1984 continue to participate in the Civil Service Retirement System . New Members of Congress since 1984 have participated in both Social Security and a new retirement program called the Federal Employees Retirement System . A Member of Congress can decline coverage in this program . Members elected prior to 1984 had the option of remaining on the Civil Service Retirement System or opting for the new Federal Employees Retirement System . The Civil Service Retirement program was not designed to be integrated with Social Security . The contributions and benefits from this program are much higher . When these benefits are combined with Social Security they can become substantial . Members of Congress can be covered under one of four different programs : 1 . Full coverage under Social Security and the old Civil Service Retirement System . 2 . An offset plan which includes both Social Security and the Civil Service Retirement System but the amount contributed to the CSRS is reduced by the amount paid into Social Security . 3 . The Federal Retirement System and Social Security 4 . Social Security alone . The pensions for Members of Congress are financed through a combination of contributions from the Congressman and from the Federal Governmenttheir employer . When they pay Social Security payroll taxes they pay the standard 6.2 % required of other employees . If they remained in the Civil Service Retirement System they pay an additional 7 % of their pay . If they opted for the Federal Retirement System they pay an additional .8 % of their pay . When they retire a Member of Congress can receive benefits in much the same way other federal employees do . They can file for and receive benefits under Social Security and they can apply for benefits under the retirement program they have adopted . The retirement benefit itself is based upon reaching at least age 62 and is a function of years of service and income in the highest three years of covered salary . The benefit generated under the Civil Service Retirement System is much greater than the benefit under the Federal Retirement System . By law , the benefit paid to a Member of Congress can not exceed eighty percent of the final pay of the Member of Congress . There are around 500 Members of Congress drawing pensions today . Their average pension in 2006 was under $ 35,000 . Members of Congress who elect an immediate annuity can also maintain the health insurance that they had as federal employees . Members of Congress that elect the FERS program are also eligible for a thrift savings program in which contributions are matched to a certain level .
Typicallya group retirement savings plan is an employment based retirement savings plan associated with the company you work for . The 401K has become the dominant form of such retirement plans as they are referred to as defined contribution plans rather than the defined benefit pension plans common in past years . Defined benefit pension plans promised the retiree a definite monthly benefit upon their meeting the retirement requirements of the plan and thus created an open ended liability to the employer . Under the 401K , defined contribution approach , generally the employer agrees to match -LRB- up to a certain limit -RRB- the contribution the employee themselves makes to the 401k retirement plan . These funds are then invested and grow tax deferred to build a retirement nest egg for the employee but the employer 's liability is limited to whatever contribution they agree to make during the term of employment of the employee and their liabilities and financial contributions cease with the employee 's retirement or termination of employment -LRB- the employee can roll over their 401K plan funds from one company to another or into individual retirement vehicles but you should discuss these issues with a financial advisor -RRB- .
Generally speaking , a qualified retirement plan is one legislated by the government with tax advantaged features to attract American workers to save for retirement . One example is The Employee Retirement Income Security act of 1974 -LRB- ERISA -RRB- that addresses defined benefit and defined contribution plans . And one of the most popular employer sponsored defined contribution retirement plans is a 401 -LRB- k -RRB- . Plan participants can make pretax contributions that accumulate tax deferred and some employers match a portion of the employee 's contribution . Of course distributions at retirement are taxed as ordinary income and there are penalties for distributions before age 591/2 .
The Retirement Plan Administrator typically is responsible for administering all aspects of the plan for the plan sponsor -LRB- normally a company sponsoring the plan -RRB- . Some of the duties include providing summary of the plan to participants , selecting investments for the plan , enrolling plan entrants in a timely manner . Most plan administrators will contract with a third party to help with all the responsibilities , including filing Form 5500 -LRB- like a tax return for retirement plans -RRB- and often the testing required by the government to make sure the plan is not discriminating higher income employees over the lower income employees .
Saving for retirement as a 30 year old you have an advantage over a 50 year old you have time . First thing to do is start saving regularly now . You should take advantage of tax deferral plans to get the full effect of compound growth . In Canada that mean Registered Retirement Savings Plans -LRB- RRSPs -RRB- and Tax-Free Saving Accounts -LRB- TFSAs -RRB- . If you have an employer that will contribute match your contributions take advantage - that is free money . Financial or retirement planner can help you determine what your specific portfolio should look like , depending on your risk tolerance and time horizon . Financial planning , Retirement planning and Estate planning are all integrated . What you do with one often affects the other . The first step in planning for a Good Retirement is to start saving regularly as early as you can . The challenge often is that retirement seems so far away that it is easy to put off . Now that you have started saving , what are you saving for ? Deciding what a successful retirement means to you can be quite challenging . What do you want to do for the rest of your life ? A lifestyle planner can help . There is some information on this topic under retirement on my website www.jpw.ca if you are interested . Now that you have a basic idea of what your successful retirement means , the numbers can be `` crunched '' . Your retirement or financial planner can fine tune your retirement planning to make what you want to happen , happen . What particular investment vehicles you should use , depends on your individual situation . Be sure to take advantage of retirement plans that are tax deferred -LRB- in Canada , RRSPs and TFSAs -RRB- . Tax deferral allows you to get the full effect of compound growth . If you have further questions , or feel that I could be of assistance , please do not hesitate to contact me .
The most common retirement accounts for the self-employed are SEP IRAs , Simple IRAs and individual 401 -LRB- k -RRB- s . These plans have two factors in common : up-front tax breaks and tax-deferred saving , meaning you do n't pay taxes until you withdraw the money in retirement . The Roth version of the individual 401 -LRB- k -RRB- is slightly different : you do n't get an up-front tax break , but your money not only grows tax free , withdrawals in retirement are also tax-free . The Simplified Employee Pension -LRB- SEP -RRB- IRA is probably your best bet.You can open one at virtually any bank , mutual fund sponsor or brokerage firm . Annual account fees are low - or non-existent . Your contribution limit is based on a simple formula : You can put away as much as 25 % of your net income , up to a cap that increases periodically to keep pace with inflation - $ 49,000 in 2010 . Money stays sheltered from taxes during your savings years , and what 's additionally appealing is a SEP 's funding flexibility . You can wait to fund the plan until you file your taxes . So if your income turns out to be higher than expected , you can make a large contribution and cut your tax bill . If you have a tough year , you can scale your contribution back . If you work alone now , but aspire to bigger things . Then a Savings Incentive Match Plan for Employees -LRB- SIMPLE -RRB- IRA may be better for you . With a SIMPLE IRA , you can keep investing in the same plan after you hire someone . Though do n't forget what the plan name stands for : you have to match your employees ' contributions , up to 3 % of pay . The main problem with a SIMPLE IRA is that you can stash away no more than $ 11,500 a year -LRB- $ 14,000 if you 're 50 or over -RRB- , which may not be enough to meet your retirement goals . Also , if you need to make a withdrawal from a SIMPLE IRA plan within two years of its inception , the 25 % penalty is significantly higher than the 10 % fee you 'd be charged for early withdrawal from a SEP IRA . Both the SEP IRA and individual 401 -LRB- k -RRB- make it tough on sole proprietors who try to hire even one full-time employee . SEP rules can lock you into expensive contributions . With an individual 401 -LRB- k -RRB- , unless that employee is married to you , you 'll have to stop funding your plan or convert it to the more complex and cumbersome employer version . For that , you 'll surely need professional help , and you may even have to hire a third-party plan administrator . That does n't come cheap . The Individual 401 -LRB- k -RRB- is an especially good choice if you are scrambling to build up your retirement savings and can afford to sock away a considerable portion of your earnings . The generous contribution formula lets you put aside more money at a lower income level than you can with a SEP IRA . As an employee , you can stash away as much as $ 16,500 . As the boss , you can contribute an additional 25 % of compensation , up to a maximum of $ 49,000 , including your employee contribution . These contributions are discretionary , so you can save the maximum in flush years and nothing in tougher times . If you and your spouse are both in the plan and enjoy a banner year , you could save a total of $ 98,000 . And if you are both 50 or older and eligible for catch-up contributions of $ 5,500 each , the total climbs to $ 109,000 . It 's also possible to take out a loan against an individual 401 -LRB- k -RRB- . That can be useful if you need funds during a business crunch . You can borrow half the account 's balance , up to $ 50,000 , and typically take up to five years to pay it back -LRB- provider rules vary -RRB- . That said , borrowing from a retirement plan should be a last resort , since it could seriously undermine your long-term goals . Individual 401 -LRB- k -RRB- s come with a bit of bureaucratic hassle . Once your balance exceeds a certain level - $ 250,000 in 2010 - you have to fill out an IRS form -LRB- form 5500 -RRB- every year , which adds a bit to your accountant 's bill . Before a tax law change in 2001 , Keogh plans were a popular choice for high-income self-employed people . These days , they 've been largely replaced by SEP IRAs , which have the same contribution limits but much less paperwork . Keogh plans come in two varieties : Defined-contribution . These plans have two variations : profit-sharing and money-purchase . The profit-sharing version of the Keogh is most like the SEP ; there 's a ceiling on contributions - 25 % of compensation , up to a maximum contribution of $ 49,000 in 2010 - and below that limit you can put in whatever you can spare . You also can change your contribution each year . With the money-purchase plan , you pick a percentage of income you 'll contribute every year , and stick with it . If you do n't , you 'll owe the IRS a penalty . Defined-benefit . This type of Keogh acts as a traditional pension plan , but for one key fact : you fund it yourself . You pick the annual pension you want , then contribute -LRB- and deduct from your taxes -RRB- whatever amount is needed to reach that goal . If you 're self employed and have a high income - say you 're a doctor or lawyer - this type of plan may allow you to save more for retirement than many other plans . Keoghs can be complicated to set up , and the paperwork required if you own one is considerable . If you 're interested in establishing a Keogh , consult a financial adviser .
Technically no person or employer is required to provide health insurance under ObamaCare . In other words it is not a criminal offense you could be jailed for . ObamaCare uses a mixture of tax penalties , tax credits and subsidies to strongly motivate individuals and employers to provide health insurance either for themselves or , if you are an employer , for your employees . Small businesses with 2 to 49 employees are subject to no tax penalties for not providing health insurance for their employees . Depending upon the average income level of their workforce there is even a tax credit available to incentivize small employers to provide health insurance . In practical terms only a small percentage of small businesses have taken advantage of this credit . However , small businesses are also the first businesses to have theirhealth insuranceplans directly impacted by the requirements of ObamaCare for what is deemed an acceptable benefit plan design -LRB- deductible levels , services covered , removal of pre-existing condition exclusions , etc. -RRB- and this is leading to substantial rate increases for many small businesses or deterring somesmall businesses who were considering beginning to offer health insurance to their employees from doing so . Beginning in 2015 employers with 100 + full time employees will be subject to a tax penalty of $ 2000 per employee if they offer no health insurance to their employees or a tax penalty of $ 3000 per employee who enrolls in the government marketplace and receives a tax subsidy due to the employer 's coverage being deemed unaffordable by the law 's standards . While these tax penalties appearmeaningful at first glance , they are really substantially less than it costs most large employers to provide health insurance currently to their employees . As such , it is debatable as to how much of an incentive the law will really be for large employers who do not currently provide health insurance to their employees to do so in the future and perversely it will be cheaper for most large employers to pay the tax penalty than to pay for health insurance for their employees . In 2016 the penalties and requirements I described above will be applied to employers in the 50 to 99 employee group size segment .
Assuming you are talking about individual major medical insurance purchased after January 1 , 2014 , I think it comes down to some basic questions such as ; 1 -RRB- Do I qualify for a subsidy of my health insurance if I purchase it through the government health insurance marketplace ? The answer to this question may help you determine if you wish to purchase your coverage inside or outside of the government marketplace . In many areas of the country you will have more insurance carrier options outside of the government marketplace . 2 -RRB- Affordability - with or without a subsidy , what does your personal budget allow you to spend on health insurance premiums each month ? 3 -RRB- Plan Design & Cost Sharing - you will see a bewildering array of plan designs , many of which will look quite different from what you may have seen in the past . Terms such as Bronze , Silver , Gold & Platinum will need to mean something to you as they denote some basic levels of coverage and what you might anticipate in paying out of your pocket before your insurance benefits begin to pay . Bronze plans will offer the lowest monthly premiums but they will almost universally require you to pay a substantial deductible -LRB- perhaps $ 6000 + -RRB- before anything other than preventive care is covered . The trade off for a lower monthly premium can be more than offset by paying out of pocket for doctor 's services , inpatient & outpatient services and prescriptions . You will have to make some judgment call as to what you anticipate your health care consumptionwill be and how much up front financial exposure you are willing to take . If you are dealing with a chronic medical condition like diabetes you may be better served to pay a higher monthly premium for higher level plan designs that offer copays and lower deductibles . 4 -RRB- Provider Network - are the doctors , hospitals and pharmacies you want to use in the provider network for the insurance plan you may be interested in ? This is an especially sensitive area to women and one where you really need to do your homework . If you are purchasing coverage outside of the government health insurance marketplace you can be pretty confident that the providers the carrier says are in-network really are . There has been no small amount of confusion on this issue with some of the insurance plans offered in the government health insurance marketplaces . Also , you are more likely to encounter `` skinny '' networks in the government marketplaces than outside of them . The insurance products using skinny networks will generally be among the most attractively priced but the trade off is a significantly reduced provider network and possibly an environment more centered around Physician Assistants and/or Nurse Practitioners . 5 -RRB- Prescription Formulary - this kind of goes along with the points I was making above but it deserves special attention . You should not assume that every insurance carrier or even every insurance plan option offered by the same insurance carrier will cover the specific prescription medications you use . Every carrier uses prescription formularies -LRB- lists of approved drugs -RRB- and they can vary widely in what they cover , at what level they cover it , and possibly what steps you may have to go through before a specific medication would be approved for coverage . If you are using specific prescriptions you would be wise to verify their coverage status with a potential carrier before you enroll with them . 6 -RRB- Does Your Coverage Extend Beyond Your Local Area & Does it Require a Primary Care Physician Referral in Order to Visit a Specialist ? - some plan options may be restrictive as to the geographic boundaries of your coverage and may provide little or no coverage outside of their `` service ' area . If you are the stay at home type this may not be an issue for you but if you travel a lot is may be a serious factor in your decision . Also , you should not assume that you can just go directly to any specialist -LRB- even if they are in-network -RRB- without a referral from your Primary Care Physician -LRB- PCP -RRB- first . Some plans require a referral from a PCP to access specialty care . Without such a referral in these plans you may find your claim denied or treated as an out-of-network claim . You need to determine if the health plan you are considering uses such a gatekeeper approach and decide if this is acceptable to you . If you can do all these things then you will be well positioned to find a health insurance plan that best fits your needs . If you feel you are not equipped to find the answers to all these questions on your own then you should seek out an independent insurance broker to guide you through this process .
The is the federal employees retirement system , the FERS , for federal government employees . Most of these retirement plans are defined benefit retirement plans , but some offer defined contribution plans , which are becoming more popular like a 401 -LRB- k -RRB- in the private sector .
Company sponsored retirement program can have provisions that allow participants to withdraw funds from their active program . The criteria for who can exercise these options are detailed in the plan documents which are normally available from the company headquarters . Some plans allow withdrawals to assist in the purchase of a home , to pay for education , or emergencies . The withdrawal provision will often require that the amount withdrawn be repaid and might stipulate a specific time frame for the repayment . The Internal Revenue Service looks at these withdrawals as distributions and taxes them accordingly . If the retirement fund is entirely money contributed by the employer , the distribution would be treated as ordinary income and if the employee is less than 59.5 years old an additional 10 % penalty tax is also applied . The same general taxation is applied if the employee contributes to the pension plan but the contribution has not been taxed as income . This is a salary reduction agreement . This is the most common form of pension plan today . If the employee has made after-tax contributions to the pension plan those are treated differently and some or part of the withdrawal might be seen as a return of principle . The determination of tax is done by the employers accounting firm . They will notify the employee if any tax is due . The employee must report this to the IRS which will determine if the penalty tax applies . There are exceptions to the early distributions penalty tax . If the qualified plan had an auto-enrollment feature and the employee decides to not participate in the plan , that withdrawal is an exception to the early withdrawal tax . If the amount placed in the plan exceeds the annual allowance under the Internal Revenue Code , money can be withdrawn without penalty to bring the plan into conformity . These withdrawals must be made in a timely manner . When the participant dies , or becomes totally and permanently disabled , the money from the retirement fund can be distributed without incurring the early withdrawal tax . If the money is being withdrawn from the retirement fund to satisfy a qualified domestic relation order the distribution will not be subject to the early withdrawal tax . This occurs frequently in divorce proceedings . If the employee withdraws substantially equal payments over a period of time those distributions would not be subject to the early withdrawal tax . This can be quite tricky and legal and accounting advice should be sought . There isnt an early withdrawal tax on the amount withdrawn if the Internal Revenue Service has put a levy on the pension plan . If money is withdrawn to pay medical expenses that exceed 10 % of the Annual Adjusted Gross income of the employee , those distributions are not subject to the early withdrawal tax . If withdrawals from a pension plan are being done by a qualified military reservist who has been activated , those distributions will be exempt from the early withdrawal tax If the withdrawal is from the current plan to another , particularly if it is being done from one trustee to another there will not be an early withdrawal tax . If the employ has reached age 55 and is separating from service with the company , the distribution will not trigger the early withdrawal tax . To determine how this tax will affect you contact your plan administrator , accountant or attorney .
Financial planning , Retirement planning and Estate planning are all integrated . What you do with one often affects the other . The first step in planning for a Good Retirement is to start saving regularly as early as you can . The challenge often is that retirement seems so far away that it is easy to put off . Now that you have started saving , what are you saving for ? Deciding what a successful retirement means to you can be quite challenging . What do you want to do for the rest of your life ? A lifestyle planner can help . There is addtional information on this topic under retirement on my website www.jpw.ca if you are interested . Now that you have a basic idea of what your successful retirement means , the numbers can be `` crunched '' . Your retirement or financial planner can fine tune your retirement planning to make what you want to happen , happen . What particular investment vehicles you should use , depends on your individual situation . Be sure to take advantage of retirement plans that are tax deferred -LRB- in Canada , RRSPs and TFSAs -RRB- . Tax deferral allows you to get the full effect of compound growth . If you have further questions , or feel that I could be of assistance , please do not hesitate to contact me . If you would like to work with a local Retirement Planner , you could start with a Google search . For example if you search for : retirement planner Halifax or retirement planning Halifax , my name along with several others will come up . You can use the same method to find Retirement Planners in your community .
403 -LRB- b -RRB- Plan EmployerInformation - What is a 403 -LRB- b -RRB- plan ? Its a great benefit to both your employees and you!A 403 -LRB- b -RRB- plan is a tax-deferred plan that can be set up forany public school , university , college or non-profit 501 -LRB- c -RRB- -LRB- 3 -RRB- organization . Generally , any employee may participate as away to invest for retirement . A 403 -LRB- b -RRB- plan benefits more than just your employeesIt benefits your organization . Help reward and retain loyal employees while attractingnew , well-qualified ones . Maintain a positive work environment and enhance yourreputation as a progressive , caring organization , with littlecost to you . It benefits you in your goal to prepare for yourown retirement . You will have a high-quality plan to build a supplementaryretirement income while saving on taxes today . You have the ability to choose from a wide variety ofinvestment options to fit your goals . How does a 403 -LRB- b -RRB- plan work ? Contributions - You and your employees can contribute money on a pre-taxbasis . This means you can afford to contribute more than ifyou put money aside after taxes were deducted . And , unlike ataxable investment , earnings on the account compound taxfree until the money is withdrawn . Then both contributionsand earnings will be treated as taxable income . A pre-taxcontribution of up to $ 17,500 may be made in 2013 . Forthose 50 and older , a catch-up contribution of $ 5,500 maybe made . Additional catch-up contributions may be madeby those with at least 15 years of service with a qualifiedemployer . These limits may increase in future years.You may be able to contribute to a 457 -LRB- b -RRB- Governmentalplan as well , and double your contributions . For example , in2013 , the maximum contribution to a 457 -LRB- b -RRB- Governmentalplan is normally $ 17,500 . That can be combined with the403 -LRB- b -RRB- plan normal contribution limit of $ 17,500 for a totalof $ 35,000 invested tax deferred . Catch-up contributions canincrease this combined limit even more . Employer match You may choose to have a plan available for just youremployees to easily contribute money for their retirement.Or , you can go a step further and offer additionalcontributions where you match all or a part of employeecontributions . The plan does not require an employer match , but its a great way to encourage participation and is apowerful tool in attracting and retaining employees . If youchoose to make matching contributions , they do not counttoward the 403 -LRB- b -RRB- plan limits on employee contributions . Roth option - You may choose to offer a Roth 403 -LRB- b -RRB- option . Under aRoth option , employee contributions are made on an aftertax basis . However , a distribution from a Roth 403 -LRB- b -RRB- TSAaccount is completely free of federal income tax if it meetsboth of the following requirements : It is made after the end of the five year period that beginswith the year that the employee made his or her first Roth403 -LRB- b -RRB- TSA contribution to your plan . It is made after the employee reaches age 59 , becomesdisabled or dies . Access to account balances-You can select a time period for employees to become fullyvested in the employer-matching portion of the 403 -LRB- b -RRB- plan.Note that employee contributions are always 100 % vested.Distributions can be made only when participants severemployment , reach age 59 , become permanently disabledor experience financial hardship , or are a reservist called toactive duty for 180 days or more or for an indefinite period.The employer plan may impose additional restrictions . Unless the distributions are rolled over to an eligibleretirement plan , they will be taxed as ordinary income.Distributions before age 59 may also be subject to an IRS10 % penalty tax . Distributions attributable to employercontributions are only allowed on severance of employmentor occurrence of another event as provided by the plan .
Ideally planning for retirement should start as soon as we start working . Why ? Chances are we will make it to retirement and be there longer than we are in the traditional workforce . In short , the sooner you start saving the more you can take advantage of compound interest . A pilot has a checklist to be sure nothing is left out . I suggest you use one to help plan for your retirement , it will save you time and money . It is a shameless plug , but you will find one at www.RetirementPlanningCheckList.ca that you can use as a guide . Here is brief overview : First you need to decide , what a successful retirement means to you and then choose a retirement date as a focus point . Next determine , what it will cost to fund your retirement goals . Do a retirement budget , etc. . Once you determine the cost , how much you need to accumulate and need to save can be determined . Examine and co-ordinate the various sources of retirement income . Review your employee benefits to determine what you will need to supplement with personal plans . If you are self employed , you will need to address what is going to happen to , and with , your business . Succession planning needs to be addressed . Ensure your estate plan is up to date with what you want to happen after you are gone - will , beneficiaries for insurance and retirement account , etc. . Keep your spouse informed and be sure to have a Personal Record Organizer that provides the location of your important documents . Choose a financial planner to assist you . Take action , get started . If you have further questions , or feel that I could be of assistance , please do not hesitate to contact me . There is additional information on retirement planning and business succession planning on my website . www.jpw.ca
In terms of Original Medicare , most people who are citizens or permanent residents of the United States can get premium free Medicare Part A -LRB- hospital insurance -RRB- at age 65 or older . At age 65 , you are eligible if : You receive or are eligible for Social Security benefits . You receive or are eligible to receive railroad retirement benefits . You or your spouse -LRB- living or deceased , including divorced spouses -RRB- worked long enough in a government job and paid Medicare taxes . You are the dependent parent of a fully insured deceased child . Before age 65 , you are eligible for free Medicare Part A -LRB- hospital insurance -RRB- if : Youve been entitled to receive Social Security disability benefits for 24 months . You receive a disability pension from the railroad retirement board and meet certain conditions . If you receive Social Security disability benefits because you have Lou Gehrigs disease . You worked long enough in a government job and paid Medicare taxes and you meet Social Security disability program requirements . You are the child or widow -LRB- er -RRB- age 50 or older . This includes a divorced widow -LRB- er -RRB- , of someone who has worked long enough in a government job where Medicare taxes were paid and you meet the Social Security disability program requirements . You receive maintenance dialysis or a kidney transplant because you have permanent kidney failure . You are eligible for or you already receive monthly benefits under Social Security or the railroad retirement system . You have met the required amount of time working in a Medicare covered government job . You are the child or spouse -LRB- also includes a divorced spouse -RRB- of a worker -LRB- living or deceased -RRB- who has worked long enough under Social Security or in a government -LRB- Medicare-covered -RRB- job .
If you are asking how do youcalculate how much do you need to save for retirement there is a process to follow . First you need to determine what retirement success looks like to you . Your retirement planner may be trained to help you if not a lifestyle planner could . The next step to figure out what that lifestyle wouldcostand make a retirementbudget . Now you can do somemeaningfulcalculations . Total up what income you expect from any government plans , pensionplans , etc. . Compare this amount to your retirement lifestyle budget . The difference is what needs to be funded byadditionalsavings . There are calculators on the websites of financialinstitutionsto give you an idea . If you have further questions , or feel that I could be of assistance , please do not hesitate to contact me . If you would like to work with a local Retirement Planner , you could start with a Google search . For example , if you search for : retirement planner Halifax or retirement planning Halifax , my name , along with several others , will come up . You can use the same method to find Retirement Planners in your community .
How Employer Health Insurance started ? 1920-1930 : The Rising Price of Medical Care In 1929 two doctors Ross and Loos formed Ross Loos Clinic to provide medical care for 2,000 employees of the water department of Los Angeles for $ 1 per month per employee . Ross Loos grew to 29 locations in LA to provide medical care for city employees at a fixed cost per month whether they visited the doctor or not . The precursor to Blue Cross was founded in 1929 by a group of Dallas teachers who contracted with Baylor University Hospital to provide 21 days of hospitalization for a fixed $ 6.00 payment . The Baylor plan developed as a way to ensure that people paid their bills . 1930-1940 : The Birth of Blue Cross and Blue Shield Pre-paid hospital service plans grew over the course of the Great Depression . Pre-paid hospital care was mutually advantageous to both subscribers and hospitals during the early 1930s , when consumers and hospitals suffered from falling incomes . The AHA designed the Blue Cross guidelines so as to reduce price competition among hospitals . Prepayment plans seeking the Blue Cross designation had to provide subscribers with free choice of physician and hospital , a requirement that eliminated single-hospital plans from consideration . Despite the success of Blue Cross and pre-paid hospitalization policies , physicians were much slower in providing pre-paid care . Blue Cross and Blue Shield developed separately , with little coordination between them . Physicians worried that a third-party system of payment would lower their incomes by interfering with the physician-patient relationship and restricting the ability of physicians to price discriminate . In the 1930s , physicians were faced with two situations that spurred them to develop their own pre-paid plans . Blue Cross plans were becoming popular , and some physicians feared that hospitals would move into the realm of providing insurance for physician services , thus limiting physician autonomy . Advocates of compulsory health insurance looked to the emerging social security legislation as a logical means of providing national health care . Physicians began to organize a framework for pre-paid plans that covered physician services . In 1939 , the California Physicians ' Service -LRB- CPS -RRB- began to operate as the first prepayment plan designed to cover physicians ' services . Open to employees earning less than $ 3,000 annually CPS provided physicians ' services to employee groups for the fee of $ 1.70 per month for employees . The AMA encouraged state and local medical societies to form their own prepayment plans . These physician-sponsored plans ultimately affiliated and became known as Blue Shield in 1946 . Blue Shield plans offered medical and surgical benefits for hospitalized members . Doctors charged patients who were subscribers to Blue Shield the difference between their actual charges and the amount for which they were reimbursed by Blue Shield The market for health insurance exploded in size in the 1940s , growing from a total enrollment of 20 million in 1940 to nearly 142 million in 1950 . During WWII there was a wage freeze however the Federal government permitted employees to provide benefits instead of wages . Companies began offering health insurance to employees and the employer sponsored health insurance market exploded .
end question
start question
life-insurance
Can You Have Multiple Life Insurance Plans ?
Yes , you can have multiple life insurance plans . In fact , if you have some short term needs -LRB- such as getting your children through college -RRB- and some long term needs -LRB- such as funeral expenses -RRB- , having a combination of Term and Permanent policies may be most comprehensive and cost effective . The only limit to life insurance is that you financially qualify for the amount of coverage you own . There is no limit to the number of life insurance policies you can have .
Yes , it is okay to have multiple life insurance policies . Insurance companies when they underwrite policies look at the amount of insurance in force , not the number of policies . Depending on your individual circumstances it may or may make sense , though.It is probably more out of pocket for you to have multiple policies . Since you would be paying multiple the policy fees and missing out on possible volume discounts . Since individual circumstances are different , I suggest you contact an independent insurance professional for advice . If you have further questions , or feel that I could be of assistance , please do not hesitate to contact me . If you would like to work with a local life insurance broker , you could start with a Google search . For example , if you search for : life insurance broker Halifax or life insurance agent Halifax , my name , along with several others , will come up . You can use the same method to find a life insurance broker in your community .
Medigap plans are standardized - so a plan F from company ABC is the exact same plan F from company XYZ . The only difference between them is price - it 's how carriers differentiate themselves . You 'll need to determine which plan you would ideally like to secure . There are a total of 9 benefits under a Medigap plan - plan F is the most comprehensive -LRB- covers all 9 benefits at 100 % -RRB- , plan G is the second-most -LRB- covers everything at 100 % except for the Medicare Part B deductible of $ 147 -RRB- . Plans F & G are the two most popular plans . Then compare plans from multiple companies that offer Medigap plans to find out who will offer it to you at the lowest price -LRB- assuming you either are eligible for guaranteed-issue coverage or qualify if medically underwritten -RRB- . It 's best to do this through an independent Medigap insurance broker . If you go to a captive agent , you 'll only see numbers from one company - the one they work for . If you go to an independent agent , you can see numbers from multiple companies to make sure you 're getting the lowest rate . I hope the information is helpful - please feel free to contact me for help , including quotes and plan comparisons , and if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
The number of life insurance policies is n't a concern except for the fact that consolidation of multiple policies can generally save you money . The real concern is why multiple policies ? One life insurance policy could cover the domestic financial liabilities , another to fund tax advantaged retirement income and still another could be for estate planning purposes . So you can have multiple polices for legitimate reasons .
You can have multiple homes and a separate policy for each home ; or , you can have one home and a separate policy covering distinct lines of risk . The first answer is self evident . The second answer needs a bit of clarification . The basic principal of indemnity means that you will be restored to your original position before the accident . This means you are not supposed to profit from an accident when an insurance company indemnifies you . So , you will not be able to profit by having multiple policies on one home for the same coverage . This type of fraud is specifically dealt with in the terms of the policy . However , you could theoretically get physical damage coverage through Insurance Company A and liability/medical payment protection through Insurance Coverage B . This would create a multiple policy coverage for one home . I hope this helps .
Yes , most people can get life insurance while having Multiple Sclerosis . As you know , there is such a wide range of symptoms , from virtually having no impairments , to having to be confined to bed . So the type of life insurance you can get with MS depends on your own situation . If you have relapsing remitting MS and are still able to work full time , you should be able to get a medically underwritten policy at a reasonable price . If you are at the other extreme of needing assistance with ADL 's , you can get guaranteed issue life insurance if you fit those age guidelines . It is important to use a life insurance agent that understands multiple sclerosis underwriting , and carries a wide range of products , to get your most affordable MS life insurance .
United of Omaha is one of the biggest carriers in the life insurance industry and is an A + rated carrier by A.M. Best . Their life insurance rates can be competitive with many options . Often , some carriers have much better rates for certain types of coverage than other types -LRB- e.g. a carrier may be more competitive in the term insurance market than they are in the permanent insurance market , and vice versa -RRB- . Please note , when comparing life insurance companies , there are a number of factors you need to consider in addition to the financial rating of a life insurance company . Just because they may be a big name company , does not mean they 're going to be the best carrier for your needs . The most important factor you need to consider when looking at life insurance is the risk classification you qualify for . The risk classification determines the premiums for the program . It 's important to shop the case BEFORE applying for any coverage so you know which carrier will work best for your specific medical history , which will in turn point you in the best starting position . You ideally want to only have to go through the underwriting process once , not multiple times . If you try to apply to multiple carriers at the same time , it often works against you as it acts like a red flag to carriers and more questions get asked . It 's best to consult with an experienced life insurance broker who can help you determine what coverage structure is most suitable to your needs and budget , review and compare multiple options for you to make sure you 're getting the lowest rates for the coverage . I hope the information is helpful - please feel free to contact me for help and if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
Geico only writes personal auto insurance . They do not write homeowners insurance . This can be a competitive disadvantage to Geico because many insurers offer multiple policy discounts . What this means for you , the consumer , is you get a discount on your premiums if you have your auto and home insurance with the same company . To offset this competitive advantage , Geico has arranged partnerships around the country with insurers that specialize in homeowners insurance . This partnership gives Geico the ability to match the multiple policy discounts other insurance companies offer . Their partnerships are with different companies around the country . So to find out which insurer is partnered with Geico , you need to contact Geico dirrectly . Why do insurance companies do this ? For several reasons . It is cheaper for an insurance company to service multiple policies with the same customer than one policy . So they pass on the savings in overhead to the customer . Sometimes the insurance company uses the two policies to subsidize each other . So if you have an accident with your car , the premium the insurer gets from your home insurance can sometimes subsidize the bad loss experience on the auto policy , and vice-versa .
In most cases , you can have multiple disability policies . However , it may not make much sense depending upon the reimbursement terms of each respective policy . Most disability policies have limits on the payment amount which is most often determined by a percentage of current salary . If you have multiple policies , you will need to reveal this to each , at the time of policy purchase and/or at the time of claim submission . Multiple disability policies often occur when an employee receives a disability policy from his or her employer but wants to supplement the amount of income reimbursement , in the event of an income loss due to a disability . Often , but not always , payment from one policy will be off-set by the amount of payment from an additional disability policy , so that the policyholder does not receive more than the actual amount of income loss . Read each policy carefully , particularly as each addresses payment provisions .
Yes , you can have multiple term policies . In fact , sometimes we will use multiple term polices in a clients strategy . For example , Let 's say you want $ 500k while the children are living at home . And after they move out , you only want $ 300k for about 20 years after . So if your kids move out in say 10 years , you might get a 10 year term policy for $ 200k and a 30 year term policy for $ 300k . This gives you $ 500k while the kids are home and then drops to $ 300k for an additional 20 years after they are out . And remember , there is a policy fee which you pay , which is built into the premium . Some companies will way multiple fees when you use a strategy like this , or as it is referred to sometimes , a layering strategy . If you would like to see any example of this might look like for you , feel free to reach out to me .
Traditionally , you can get up to 20-30x your income level of life insurance . The medical history does not necessarily limit how much you can get . The medical history determines the risk classification which controls the premiums for the coverage you want to put in place . When it comes to breast cancer , the details of the medical condition will determine which carriers will offer coverage and what the risk classification would be -LRB- each carrier has different underwriting , you may not get the same risk class offer from each of them -RRB- , The best thing to do is to shop the case via an independent insurance agent/broker who can shop it to multiple companies . You do NOT want to apply to multiple companies as this can work against you due to the MIB -LRB- Medical Information Bureau -RRB- - from a company 's point of view , it 's sort of like a red flag if you will if they saw you applied to multiple companies which they can check the MIB for . In order to secure the most accurate quotes for the coverage , a number of factors would need to be known such as when the cancer was diagnosed , what stage is it in/was it in , how was it treated , has treatment been completed , are there anymore tests scheduled or that need to be completed , are you being treated for any other conditions , what prescriptions do you take , family medical history , and other factors . If you have a copy of the pathology report , that will help with a lot of the input . If cancer is current , guaranteed-issue whole life -LRB- GIWL -RRB- will be the only type of coverage available as it does n't have any medical questions or exam requirements . However , the amount of coverage available under a single policy is $ 20,000 - $ 25,000 , depending on the carrier . To get more than that , you would need to stack multiple policies . Under GIWL policies , they traditionally feature a 2 or 3 year graded period - meaning you only have accidental death coverage during those periods , otherwise the carrier just returns the premiums paid into the policy if death occurs during the graded period . After the graded period expires , the full benefit is payable . Carriers typically only issue fully-underwritten coverage if the cancer has been in remission/treatment completed for at least 2 years . Many carriers prefer 5 + years from the date treatment was completed for a more favorable risk class . Send me a message via the `` contact me '' button by my profile picture if you would like me to assist with your coverage . My group is licensed with about 50 different carriers in numerous states . I hope the information is helpful - please let me know how I can be of further assistance . Thanks very much .
The best way to get multiple insurance quotes is to contact a local independent agent . Independent agents are not beholden to any once company and therefor are able to quickly give you multiple quotes with multiple options to chose from . Independent agents work for the client , not the insurance company .
No . Getting auto insurance quotes will not affect your credit score . This is a myth that just will not go away ! If you were to apply for multiple credit cards or multiple loans , that would negatively affect your credit score . and because of that , many people make the false assumption that getting quotes with multiple auto insurance companies would also hurt your credit score . But that is simply not true .
Underwriters have a number of ways of answering this question . It all depends on why you want to buy the policy . If you want to replace your income , then they use a table to determine a multiple of your income . For example , depending on the company , a person in their 20s or 30s may end up with 20 or 30 times their annual income as a face amount limit . If you want to cover a personal debt such as a mortgage , or a business debt such as a bank loan , then you simply have to prove the amount due . If you need to meet the terms of a legal contract , such as a partnership agreement or divorce decree , then you have to document those terms . If you use life insurance to cover an estate tax obligation , then you need a financial statement proving your net worth . And you know what ? You could use a policy for multiple needs , or buy multiple policies with each one covering a different need .
You can receive disability insurance by finding a Life agent in your area or online . It 's nice to have someone in your area that you know so that they can be around to help should you ever need to file a claim . They 'll be able to shop around for you and find quotes from multiple carriers . Be sure you ask to see multiple offers and have your agent explain the different provisions on the policy . Sometimes the bells and whistles seen great , but depending on your occupation , they might be unnecessary . If you have a specific insurance company in mind , they can usually refer you to an agent who is already appointed with their company . You can also look for an disability insurance wholesaler who can put you in contact with an agent in your area that they already know and trust .
I am asked this questions almost daily . Finding the best plan for you depends on your current state of health , medicines you are taking , height and weight , if you are a smoker , and what type of exposure you would like to take or minimize . There are usually over 25 different insurance companies offering coverage in each state . Each of those companies offer multiple plans -LRB- F , G , N , D -RRB- . For some of my clients , Plan F is best for them . Others find Plan N works better . It is really a personal preference and can only be determined by talking with an experienced broker who represents multiple companies .
Epilepsy is a disorder of the brain and nervous system involving repeated random seizures that occur without warning . If you have been diagnosed with epilepsy and are trying to purchase life insurance , the severity of the disease can have an effect on the rates you pay . Life insurance companies will want to know a number of factors to make an accurate risk assessment including : 1 . What age were you diagnosed with epilepsy ? 2 . Do you have Grand Mal , Petite , or Focal seizures ? 3 . When was your most recent seizure ? How many have you had in the last year , 2 years , 5 years , etc. ? 4 . Have you ever been hospitalized for epilepsy ? 5 . Are you taking prescription medication to control symptoms ? 6 . Are you a smoker or tobacco user ? 7 . What is your height/weight ? 8 . Any other co-morbid conditions such as diabetes , obesity , heart disease , etc ? If you have been diagnosed with epilepsy , you should not apply with multiple companies at the same time - this can work against you as it will act as a sort of red flag for the insurance companies -LRB- they will see that you 've applied for multiple carriers and what the outcomes were during the MIB check -LRB- Medical Information Bureau -RRB- -RRB- . The more companies that give you a table rating or decline coverage on a formal application , the less likely you are to get a better offer . You need the help of an independent life insurance agent that can shop your medical profile informally . We specialize in high risk life insurance and make sure you are getting the best possible offer - we 're licensed in many states around the country . Send me a message if we can be of assistance securing a policy for you - my contact information is available on my profile .
Yes , you can have two or more term life insurance policies as long as you financially qualify for the total face amount . In a lot of cases it is more cost effective to own multiple polices based on the financial needs of your loved ones . For example , you may want a whole life for a small amount for your life time , a 30 year term life policy to cover your mortgage and a 20 year term life to cover the children 's education fund in case of your early death . By using multiple policies you will save monthly premiums rather than paying for one policy and having to reapply every few years .
I am a huge fan of Critical Illness plans -LRB- CI -RRB- . So I 'm happy to add to the great comments above . What is covered is always defined ... . yet there are a few `` twists to look for '' . Most CI plans have moved to a `` multiple bucket '' philosophy . Most cover the `` Big Three '' critical illnesses : Cancer , Heart Attack , & Stroke . What you have to understand is if the policy is a `` One and Done '' or a `` Multiple Bucket '' plan . One and Done means that once the benefit is paid out for one CI , then the policy terminates . Diagnosed with cancer , you get the check , but there is no benefit for hart attack or stroke . A multiple bucket policy usually has a benefit for different categories -LRB- buckets of money -RRB- : Heart/Stroke , Cancer , Other . So you could be diagnosed with cancer & a benefit is paid . Then the stress gives you a heart attack & a benefit is paid . Then after all that , some `` other CI '' happens and you get a 3rd benefit . ALSO consider what the definitions are WHEN a benefit is paid . Consider an Organ Transplant benefit . Does it pay upon diagnosis and being added to the national registry or does it pay when the physical transplant is completed ? That 's a biiiiig timing difference . Also consider the `` Carcinoma in Situ '' definition and benefit amount . That 's when cancer is isolated to one tissue type -LRB- general definition -RRB- . Being smaller & localized , a Carcinoma in Situ is generally `` not as dangerous or life threatening '' . I believe all CI plans with a Carcinoma in Situ benefit pays only a percentage of the full benefit . So if you have a $ 10,000 cancer bucket , yet it 's Carcinoma in Situ , do you get 10 or 25 % of the full benefit ? Hmmmmm . OR ... does the CI plan your agent is offering even have an in Situ ??? Most have in Situ benefits . Just double check . If you trigger the in Situ benefit know that you still have the remaining percentage left in case the cancer spreads . Usually called invasive cancer . If you received $ 2500 out of your $ 10,000 when it was in Situ , you still have $ 7500 in your `` bucket '' in case things get worse . Look at the riders -LRB- additional benefits too -RRB- . Return of premium upon death -LRB- other than a named CI -RRB- or return of premium after a named period of time , Mortgage payment , accident benefits , hospital benefits , and children 's benefits are riders offered by various carriers . Weigh the cost vs. the benefit based on YOUR specific needs . PLEASE consider coverage for your children . I know that if one of my girls was living in a children 's hospital fighting cancer , I 'd also live there . The cash injection can be financially life saving . HOPE all this helped ... - gravy
Yes you can so long as the total death benefit amount makes financial sense to the insurers . Unlike car insurance for example where it is not an acceptable practice to have multiple policies providing coverage on your car , having multiple life insurance policies on yourself is not as a rule frowned upon . It would be a good idea , however , to talk to your Insurance Professional about this because each issued policy will have certain fixed fees included in your premium . Having several policies then might actually end up costing you more than having one larger policy for the full amount of the benefit .
end question
start question
life-insurance
Does Life Insurance Payout Get Taxed ?
In most cases , life insurance proceeds are received income tax free . If the proceeds are payable due to the policy endowing -LRB- or maturing -RRB- the gain -LRB- proceeds less premium paid -RRB- may be taxable . Life insurance policies owned by an individual with proceeds payable to the estate of the owner may be subject to federal and / or state estate taxes . Proceeds payable on a viaticized life insurance policy also may be subject to income taxes .
In addition to what Bob said , life insurance proceeds may be subject to federal estate taxes if they push the value of the estate beyond 5.25 million dollars -LRB- the exempted amount for 2013 -RRB- . Some states also have estate or inheritance taxes that can apply to life insurance proceeds .
Annuity withdrawals from a non-registered immediate or payout annuity consist of an interest portion and a return of capital portion . In Canada , you are not taxed on the return of capital portion , but you are taxed on the interest portion . Think of annuities as the opposite of a mortgage . In a 25 year mortgage , early payments consist of mostly interest with little going towards the principle . With an annuity , the early payments you receive are mostly taxable interest and a little of your own principle . For those individuals who can qualify , a prescribed annuity equalizes the interest income . For example , with a 25 year annuity the total interest earned is divided by 25 and spread out equally over the term of the contact . Increased after tax income in the early years is the result . There are specific rules governing prescribed annuities , If you are interested in more information , please contact me . Income from a payout annuity may qualify for income splitting for income tax purposes . This allows you to transfer up to 50 % of the taxable income earned from the payout annuity . Missing out on the federal pension income income tax credit ? Income from a payout annuity may qualify for the $ 2,000 non-refundable tax credit . Note : Interest earned on a Guaranteed Investment Annuity -LRB- GIA -RRB- also may qualify . If you have further questions , or feel that I could be of assistance , please do not hesitate to contact me . If you would like to work with a local life insurance broker , you could start with a Google search . For example , if you search for : life insurance broker Halifax or life insurance agent Halifax , my name , along with several others , will come up . You can use the same method to find a life insurance broker in your community .
What is the tax rate on life insurance payouts ? In most all cases the life insurance payout tax is zero . Usually there is no tax consequence on life insurance proceeds presented upon death . The time that the benefit would have tax ramifications would be when the life insurance premium was taken on a pre tax basis . This would make the death benefit taxable income .
Single Immediate Annuities Payouts are determined by gender , age and the length of the payout , i.e. 10 years , 20 years , etc. . But the most popular immediate payout is lifetime annuitization where the interest rate of return is combined with mortality credits based on the age of the annuitant . The additional tax benefit of a non-qualified immediate annuity annuitized payout is the exclusion ration which comprises part of the payment and represents the tax free distribution of basis .
In general terms tax deferred annuities , during the accumulation period defined by the policy , does not pay taxes until constructive receipt of any distributions . During distributions , all gain is taxed at ordinary income tax rates of the owner of the annuity . Non-qualified annuities have basis which will not be taxed but generally are received last in a payout . If the annuity is annuitized for the life of the annuitant , basis with be part of the payout until it is exhausted . That is the exclusion provision for basis , which can have a positive impact on cash flow .
The term `` qualified '' should really be `` tax-qualified '' . A tax-qualified long-term care insurance policy -LRB- TQ -RRB- is one that pays out benefits that are not subject -LRB- in most cases -RRB- to income taxation in the year that they are received by the policy owner . -LRB- See `` NOTE '' , below . -RRB- The benefits paid out froma `` non-qualified '' long-term care policy -LRB- NTQ -RRB- may be subject to income tax in the year that they are received . Policies purchased prior to 1998 should be reviewed by a qualified tax advisor for any questions about taxation of benefits . Legislation in 1996 allowed for federal exemption from benefit payout taxationfor policies purchased after a certain datethat metspecific requirements outlined in that legislation . NOTE : LTC insurance policies that payout their benefit as a cash amount -LRB- indemnity policies -RRB- may exceed the government-allowed limit on how much of that benefit can be considered `` tax-qualified '' . If you have one of those types of policies , consult with the carrier 's policy owner service unit to determine how your benefits might be paid out should you qualify for care . Some carriers will only payout a cash benefit up to the federally-mandated limit to avoid triggering a 1099 being sent to the IRS . But , it 's better to check than be surprised .
Creditors can not go after the life insurance payout to pay the debts of the deceased insured person , as long as the beneficiary or beneficiaries who are receiving the life insurance proceeds are actual people . Life insurance bypasses probate , so the creditor does not have the opportunity to access the life insurance payout . If the beneficiary is the insured person 's estate , the creditors may be able to go after the life insurance death benefit to pay the debts of the insured . If the beneficiary is the one who has the debts , then the creditors can go after the life insurance payout . This is also true if the beneficiary shared a debt with the deceased .
Life insurance payouts are usually considered unearned income . As such , a life insurance payout is not subject to income tax . The new 3.8 % Medicare tax on unearned income excludes life insurance cash value . The Medicare tax also excludes life insurance proceeds that are not subject to income tax .
If you purchase a deferred annuity with pre-tax money , the entire balance , including the gains will be taxable . As long as the money stays inside the annuity , the taxation is deferred . A deferred annuity has an accumulation phase and a distribution phase . During accumulation , the annuity grows untaxed . When the annuity is paid out during the distribution phase , the payouts are taxed at ordinary income tax rates for you during that year . If you buy a deferred annuity with after tax dollars then a portion of the payouts will be a tax free return of your principal . It is considered `` last in , first out '' meaning that withdrawals are taxed until the interest and earnings portion is depleted . After that , your principal can be withdrawn without taxes .
In Canada , there are two basic types of immediate -LRB- payout -RRB- annuities , term certain and life annuities . Term certain annuities payout over a specified term and then stop . Life annuities payout over the lifetime of the annuitant -LRB- can be joint life -RRB- . Life annuities can also include a guaranteed payout option . Life annuities are only available from life insurance companies . Term certain annuities are available from available from life insurance companies and other financial institutions including banks and trust companies.There are a number of different options to consider when purchasing an annuity too numerous to cover here . You would be best served by working with an independent insurance broker who can help you find the right plan . If you have further questions , or feel that I could be of assistance , please do not hesitate to contact me .
What are annuities ? Well as simply as possible , Annuities are investment products offered through insurance companies . There are different kinds of annuities , some for building balances and others for spending balances of money . The building balances form of annuity is invested and grows tax deferred over time . This is known as the accumulation phase . Depending on your choice of accumulation annuity you can have little risk to significant risk on return . Reducing your investment risk usually also means reducing your investment return . Accumulation annuities can offer a larger range of risk and return options along with tax deferral . When you decide to spend or distribute savings through an annuity , it is called an immediate annuity and begins a systematic series of regular payouts over your lifetime . An immediate annuity is know as a product that you `` ca n't outlive '' as it will pay you as long as you live . And , depending on the payout you choose , can guarantee that if you pass early , the payouts will continue to a beneficiary of your choosing for a set number of years or until all of your contributed funds are spent . An immediate annuity now offers a variety of payout options and really should be considered as part of a retirement portfolio . They provide a constant steady stream of income that will last as long as you do and if you choose an option will keep pace with inflation over time .
Fixed annuities are similar to CDs in the sense that they pay guaranteed interest rates . The advantages are that fixed annuities typically pay interest rates considerably higher than bank CDs . Insurance companies also have tougher financial standards to meet for cash reserves than banks which can make them more secure in the eyes of a consumer . There are several different types of fixed annuities but they fall into two main categories immediate and deferred . Immediate annuities make a fixed payment determined by how much money you put into the annuity and your age . Deferred annuities accumulate interest and offer different payout strategies later in life . The longer you wait to initiate payout , the larger the payout each year . Many retirees are using deferred annuities as part of their retirement income strategy because it is guaranteed income for either a specific period or a lifetime stream of income . You can choose options like single life payout or joint life payout . If this sounds familiar , it is essentially like setting up your own personal retirement pension . The biggest concern from most folks heading into retirement is that they will run out of money before they die . Fixed annuities can help remove that concern as they can help avoid the ups and downs of a volatile stock market . Other advantages of a fixed annuity include a low investment limits . There are many companies that have minimums of just a few thousand dollars . The interest paid as your annuity grows in value is also tax deferred until you pull the money out . The biggest drawback of a fixed annuity is cash liquidity . Lets say you put in $ 100,000 and intend to begin taking lifetime income seven or ten years later but two years into that period , you changed your mind and want to withdraw your money . Just like with a bank CD , there will be a consequence for early withdrawal . This surrender charge can be significant . Whats the reason for the surrender charge ? The insurance company has taken your money along with thousands of other folks money and invested it in long term financial vehicles based on your initial commitment and now youre asking them to bust your money out because of your personal situation and that costs them money . The solution : Only put money in a fixed annuity that you are certain can be left alone to complete the strategy you set out on . Most fixed annuities do not have inflation adjustments . The spending power of a monthly payment over time will erode based on inflation and that needs to be taken into consideration . There are fixed annuities with inflation protection available at an additional cost . You can also use a laddered approach with multiple annuities to combat inflation concerns during retirement . If your own a single-life annuity and you begin receiving income and then die a year or two later , depending on the contract , payments could cease . The guaranteed payout in a situation like this varies significantly from product to product and this should be of primary concern when evaluating which annuity product or company best meets your individual needs . The best way to avoid this risk is to consider a joint-life annuity . Of course , there are many different types of fixed annuities and you need to consult with a qualified retirement income adviser in order to determine which type of fixed annuity fits your particular situation .
Is an annuity guaranteed for life ? Well you may be an annuity payout and the short answer is yes . You can not outlive an immediate annuity that pays you a stream of income for your life . You can even establish guarantee windows that will continue to pay a payout after you 've passed . they are called period certain payouts . But yes , you can not outlive an annuity payout .
How long does a life insurance payout take ? From days to months depending on the situation . I have had million dollar payouts in 4 days before , because we provided everything for the claim to be paid up front . Usually you are required to provided a certified copy of the death certificate and any provisions the policy may have required . The insurance company pay interest on the payout from the date of death to the date of delivery .
Non-qualified tax deferred and immediate annuities can be part of an income strategy for suitable savers or investors . The tax deferral features of annuities are particularly attractive for high tax bracket Americans who have mid to long term financial goals . Immediate annuities can provide tax advantage strategies like those used in bond laddering techniques based on contract periods like 10 and 20 year payout periods . But immediate annuities with a life only payout can generate guaranteed income you cant outlive .
Annuities are a stream of steady income paymentsduring retirement . Money is contributed during the early years . Money is contributed compounded income andtax deferred , however the earnings are not . Withdrawals are advised at the age beginning 591/2 . You may agree to pay at lump sum one time payment or at a monthly premium . The forms of payments for payout are Lifetime Income is which you are paid for a certain amount of years like 20 , 30 , or 40 . and the benificiary is to receive the remainder upon death of the annuant . Another form of pay out is Lifetime Pay Outs which are fixed or variable , and payouts are for he lifetime of the annuant until death . Another form is Incomefor Life with a Guaranteed period Certain period which are payouts for life with a benificiary option of you die while this payout is in process .
There are many factors that go into determine what an annuity will payout per month . The primary factor is the type of annuity you have . Additionally , there are usually options associated with the payout of an annuity , so answering your question without more information is not possible . If you are considering an annuity payment , be sure to compare all of your options . Here are some general factors that go into determining annuity payments -LRB- not all apply to each type of annuity and payout option -RRB- : The amount put into the annuity The growth of the annuity over time The age of the person -LRB- s -RRB- at the time annuity payments begin The age of the spouse if a joint payout applies The length of time the payments are guaranteed to last
Once you file your claim , you 'll need to make yourself available to the insurance company in case any complications arise . If you 're named as the sole beneficiary on the policy in question , your case should be relatively straightforward . You 'll need to choose whether you 'll receive your payout as a lump-sum payment or as an ongoing annual disbursement . If you opt for the former option , you could receive the entirety of the payout to which you 're entitled within two weeks . If you opt for the latter option , you could receive your first payout in just 10 to 14 business days . In both cases , your payouts will come in the form of an official bank check . If you prefer to receive your payments electronically , you may be able to provide your insurance company with your bank account information and receive your funds via an electronic funds transfer .
Assuming that payout is death benefit proceeds , those generally pass to their designated beneficiarys tax free . There are some business scenarios where death benefit proceeds are subject to the alternative minimum tax as a preference time and could be included as revenue at ordinary income tax rates . There may be estate taxation on the federal and/or state level . Assuming that payout is about distributions : If the life insurance policy is a modified endowment contract , loans are taxable . If the life insurance is a non-modified endowment contract and the policy lapses , is surrendered or the policy reaches its maturity dateall policy loans , -LRB- those received and internal -RRB- are ordinary income tax events is the year they occur .
end question
start question
medicare-insurance
Does Medicare Cover Post Op Shoe ?
Medicare Part B covers one pair of therapeutic shoes or inserts as durable medical equipment -LRB- DME -RRB- each calendar year .
Most likely yes , but a lot of it depends on medical necessity , services needed in combination with the surgery itself , post-op care , and other factors . The cost of the care will also depend on whether it 's an inpatient or outpatient procedure , the percentage of cost Medicare will cover , etc. . I would make sure to have a Medigap plan in place to cover the costs that Medicare does n't pay for -LRB- e.g. if Medicare covers 80 % of the expenses , the plan would cover the other 20 % if it 's a plan F or G - that 20 % can be a very high dollar figure if you paid it yourself -RRB- . I hope the information is helpful - please feel free to contact me for assistance with your Medigap plan and if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
The definition of `` good '' varies from person to person and business to business . However , here are some of the aspects of a health insurance policy I advise my clients to be aware of and comfortable with : 1 -RRB- Are the doctors , hospitals and pharmacies you want to use in-network providers with the health insurance plan you are considering ? 2 -RRB- What would your coverage be -LRB- if any -RRB- if you want to use a health care provider who is not an in-network provider with the health insurance plan you are considering ? 3 -RRB- What is the pharmacy benefit under the health plan you are considering ? And , if you have specific prescription drug needs are they covered under the health insurance plan 's prescription formulary and to what extent are they covered -LRB- copays , co-insurance , deductible & co-insurance -RRB- ? 4 -RRB- Does the health insurance plan allow its members to go directly to specialists such as cardiologists or does it require that you are referred to a specialist by your primary care physician first ? 5 -RRB- If you travel regularly outside of your home area -LRB- to other states or outside the USA -RRB- does the health plan provide for coverage outside of your home service area in the event you need non-emergency care ? 6 -RRB- Is the health insurance company you are considering a well established national or regional health insurance carrier with strong finances or is it one of the new , experimental Co-Op health plans recently established under the provisions of ObamaCare ? 7 -RRB- Does the overall value proposition of the health insurance plan you are considering meet your current and anticipated needs ? In other words , does its monthly premium , coverage levels and provider network really work for you .
No one will be able to give you a perfect answer to this question until we have 2015 in the rear view mirror . Health insurance costs have always varied from state to state and ObamaCare has made the contrast between states quite stark in some cases . Combine this with the fact that how individual health insurance products were designed , rated and sold all underwent the biggest simultaneous change in the industry 's history and you have a situation where the entire health insurance marketplace has been turned upside down and we have a very foggy situation . In general terms , most individual consumers should anticipate at least a 10 % increase in their 2015 rates and be prepared to shop their coverage . Your results in your state may be quite different and it is not uncommon for some people to be receiving significantly higher rates increases . Rate filings for 2015 paint a confusing picture . Some state 's are reporting very moderate 2015 rate changes but those were also often the same states whose 2014 rates jumped the most . So , perhaps these state 's overpriced in year 1 of ObamaCare and the fact that they were only slightly off even then is n't exactly cause for cheer . Other states are seeing much higher rate increases for 2015 . Another factor complicating the cost picture are the government health insurance marketplaces themselves . Because of government administrative policies , the insurance carrier who has the second lowest cost Silver level product in each marketplace sets the bar for the amount that the government 's premium subsidy will be calculated to support . Owning this price point is a key competitive placement for the health insurance carriers in the marketplace . In year 1 this pricing position was usually held by a Blue Cross/Blue Shield plan or a national insurance carrier . In year 2 , many of year 1 's benchmark plans are now priced higher and have been replaced by a new plan and/or insurance carrier as the benchmark silver plan . And , in several states , the price leading plans in year 2 are experimental creations of ObamaCare called Co-Ops . These are non-profit programs that fill the role of a health insurance plan but are initially funded with Federal grant dollars . The year 1 track record of the Co-Op plans was mixed at best . Their year 2 positioning indicates a move to buy up market share quickly as the Federal grant dollars have a limited life span . Whether these experiments will be able to quickly develop the skills , financial reserves and enrollment base to allow them to survive independently is highly debatable .
Yes , Medicare will pay for one pair of diabetic shoes per year , and the inserts to go into them , if prescribed as medically necessary for the prevention or alleviation of diabetic neuropathy , numbness , or sores . You must purchase the shoes through a Medicare qualified podiatrist , orthotist , prosthetist or pedorthist . You can get one pair of depth inlay shoes and three inserts per year . If unable to wear depth inlay shoes due to foot deformity , you can get one pair of custom molded shoes and three inserts per year .
Medicare Part B will cover orthotic shoes only if they are part of a medically approvedleg brace . Medicare will also cover soft insole inserts for some patients with diabetes , but not orthotics for those with diabetes . Purchasing orthotic shoes without a leg brace and purchasing orthotic shoe inserts are not covered by Medicare .
Unfortunately , Geico does not carry Disability Insurance . Geico mainly carries property-casualty insurance , including home , condo , co-op , mobile home , flood , and renter 's insurance ; auto , commercial auto , collector car , motorcycle , ATV , boat , water craft , snowmobile , and umbrella insurance ; overseas and business insurance ; identity theft insurance ; and life insurance from an outside source .
No , unfortunately , Medicare will not pay for foot orthotics . The only similar item that Medicare will pay for is soft sole inserts for the shoes of persons with diabetes under the Medicare Therapeutic Shoe Bill . These inserts are not the same thing as orthotics . Also , Medicare will pay for an orthotic if it is part of a shoe that is attached to a leg brace and the whole thing is covered by Medicare .
The major health insurance options in Tennessee are Blue Cross/Blue Shield of Tennessee , AETNA , Assurant Health/John Alden , CIGNA , Humana , StarMark and United Healthcare . These are the major players in both the group and individual health insurance markets . For 2014 they were joined by the Tennessee Health Co-op which is an organization created under a grant from the Federal government to provide an additional option in the government health insurance marketplace . There are a couple of third party administered health insurance products whose policies may be underwritten by Nippon Life or some other insurance company but they represent a very small segment of the marketplace .
Am I correct in assuming that your use of ` who ' in your question refers to the insurance carrier ? If you purchased the coverage and did not receive evidence of the coverage , binder , or a policy , contact the source of the insurance -LRB- if you know the agent or broker -RRB- and ask for a policy . The declarations page -LRB- s -RRB- should set forth the name of the insurance carrier , the name of the insured -LRB- s -RRB- , and the particulars of the contract . If you did not purchase the coverage , some entity -LRB- like a lender/mortgage holder , homeowners association , Co-op , or Condo association , etc. with an insurable interest -RRB- may have purchased the policy . You can contact this entity and pose your question . In most states a homeowners policy must be in the name of the owner -LRB- showing insurable interest -RRB- and the home must be occupied by the owner -LRB- eligibility requirement for most homeowners policies . -RRB- More details of your situation are needed to provide a more specific answer .
There a many questions a consumer should ask when considering their health insurance choices . Some questions will be unique to an individual 's current or anticipated healthcare needs and are difficult to address in this forum . However , in the era of ObamaCare , here are some general questions I think any health insurance buyer should be asking when looking at different health insurance carriers and different health insurance plans . 1 -RRB- Would I qualify for a meaningful subsidy of my health insurance premiums if I purchase health insurance through a Federal or State health insurance marketplace ? 2 -RRB- What is the deductible and out-of-pocket maximum financial exposure I would have under a given policy ? 3 -RRB- Does the policy have copayments for visits to doctors , prescription drugs , urgent care and emergency room visits or are all or some of these commonly used services subject to the policy 's deductible and co-insurance ? 4 -RRB- Are the doctors and hospitals I want to use in-network providers for the health insurance plan I am considering ? 5 -RRB- Are the prescription drugs I am taking covered under the formulary for the health insurance plan I am considering and , if so , what is the level of coverage and will I be subject to step therapy to gain access to a prescription drug I am already using successfully ? 6 -RRB- What coverage , if any , will I have if I choose to go outside of my health plan 's provider network ? 7 -RRB- Are there any geographic service area restrictions to where my coverage applies ? 8 -RRB- Am I required to get a referral froma primary care physician before I can access care from a specialist or receive impatient or outpatient diagnostic services and treatment ? 9 -RRB- How financially stable is the health insurance carrier I am considering ? This is especially important if you are considering enrollment in one of the new Co-Op health plans created under ObamaCare . Obtaining answers to these questions that are satisfactory to you will go a long ways towards assuring that you get the kind of coverage that best suits your needs . Seeking out the guidance of an experienced independent health insurance broker is generally these best way for people to get the answers to these and other questions they might have . Representatives of specific insurance companies can only explain their company 's products to you and , of course , they will think that their company 's plans are the best . The so called , navigators available to help people purchase coverage through the government marketplaces are rarely licensed insurance professionals , have little depth of knowledge in the industry and are generally reading from a script or are providing you generic answers that they have been provided with .
Medicare Part B covers some diabetic supplies , including blood glucose testing monitors , blood glucose test strips , lancets , lancet devices , and glucose control solutions . People with diabetes may receive shoe inserts to prevent foot sores , and some may even receive therapeutic shoes . Medicare Part D covers syringes and other supplies associated with the administration of insulin .
Honey , I hate to tell you this but you created your driving record and your record is going to follow you . Can you straighten up and fly right-sure - you can but it is n't going to happen overnight . Every time you have had a speeding ticketthat stays on your license for three years . I assume you are listed as primary driver and she is listed as secondary . You may wantto limit her driving until she grows up and if she does n't grow up buy her a pair of new shoes and tell her you hope she gets where she needs to go without rubbing blisters on her feet . There are some cost savings by increasing your deductible but it is not enough to pay for her new shoes
Yes , Medicare will pay for one pair of depth-inlay diabetic shoes and three pairs of inserts per year for those who need them to prevent foot sores , or prevent exacerbation of foot sores , due to diabetic complications . The therapeutic shoes must be shown to be medically necessary by a qualified doctor .
Where can I get the cheapest shoes ? Price is a important factor in any purchase and chances are good that will get what you pay for . In other words look at what you are buying ? Are you just wanting the coverage to be able to use the roads are you expecting that an insurer will step up and defend you , if you cause an accident and will further pay for the damages you cause to other people or their property . Insurance people have an expression . We are not selling shoes . If all you are interested in is price you do n't understand what you are buying > Keep that in mind and also understand that insurer is pricing the product before any information is know about how you drive . It is a complex business and agents can help understand what you are buying and why .
Great question ! Most folks know the importance of homeowners insurance , but few people realize all of the benefits and coverage available with a renter 's insurance policy . Coverage options differ between insurance companies , but here is a quick list of items that are typically covered : 1 . It covers replacing all of your belongings , including furniture , clothes , shoes , tools , laptops , and TVs after a covered loss . -LRB- Many people incorrectly assume that if they are renting , their personal belongings are covered under the property owner 's insurance policy ; in most cases the renter 's belongings are not covered under the owner 's policy . -RRB- 2 . It covers medical costs for guests who may be injured in your home . -LRB- Perhaps the neighbor sprained their ankle falling off of your step ? Wouldnt it be nice to cover their medical expenses as a courtesy , and not have to pay out of your own pocket ? -RRB- 3 . It gives you liability protection for events you may be held liable for on or off the property . -LRB- Maybe the neighbor who sprained their ankle decides to sue you ? -RRB- 4 . It covers additional living expenses , such as a hotel room , and dining out in the event you are temporarily evacuated from your home . -LRB- Perhaps a pipe bursts , and the landlord says you have to stay somewhere else for 10 days while they conduct repairs ? -RRB-
Diabetes Supplies & Services Supplies : Medicare Part B -LRB- Medical Insurance -RRB- covers some diabetes supplies , including : Blood sugar -LRB- glucose -RRB- test strips Blood sugar testing monitors Insulin Lancet devices and lancets Glucose control solutions Therapeutic shoes or inserts Part B covers some diabetes services , including : Diabetes self-management training Yearly eye exam Foot exam Glaucoma tests Nutrition therapy services -LRB- medical -RRB-
Medicare Part B covers one pair of therapeutic shoes or inserts as durable medical equipment -LRB- DME -RRB- each calendar year .
Yes , auto insurance is required by law . Driving is a privilege and not a right and if a driver is too immature to handle an auto he is going to soon buy a new pair of shoes because they will not be able to get insurance much less afford it . Every driver on the road has a responsiblity to the other driver to assuree they follow all driving rules and regulations and their actions does not endanger the other party
Do you buy running shoes for a marathon form Wal-Mart ???? Do you buy a 4 cylinder truck to pull a trailer that really demands a V8 ? My point is , `` WHO CARES who has the cheapest '' . Yes , there is a way to assess apples to apples when buying home insurance . Red vs. green apples . There are always some differences in policies . However , in my state , there is a vast difference in plans offered . You are buying something to guard your finances in the event of the loss of your home , valuables , or retirement -LRB- that 's called Liability Coverage folks -RRB- . BUY THE MOST you can reasonably afford . I did a quote once and for curiosity I raised our `` in house standard amount of liability '' form 300K to 500K -LRB- the next step up for that carrier -RRB- ... What did I see ???? A ONE DOLLAR difference ... Yes ... ONE dollar . $ 200,000 more in coverage for a buck . That does n't happen for everyone and every carrier . Yet it 's almost always less than $ 10 a month . WOW ... 200K more for $ 10 a month ... . You 'll pay the price if you buy on price . - gravy
end question
start question
medicare-insurance
Can I Switch Medigap Plans ?
You can switch your Medigap Plan at any point throughout the year . You do not have to wait for AEP -LRB- Annual Election Period from Oct. 15 - Dec 7 -RRB- . AEP only applies to Medicare Advantage and Prescription Drug Plans . If you are not in your Open Enrollment Period or another Guaranteed Issue situation , you 'll have to medically qualify for a new Medigap Plan . This means you have to answer health questions on the insurance application and then get approved through the medical underwriting department . To see if you are still in Open Enrollment or any other Guaranteed Issue situation , it is best to contact Medicare or an independent agent specializing in Medicare Supplement insurance . If you have to qualify medically for a new Medigap Plan , an independent agent can review your health history and let you know which insurance companies you may qualify with . There are many reasons why you may want to switch Medigap plans -LRB- lower premium , more benefits , less benefits -RRB- . Please feel free to read this article which gives a little more detail about changing your Medigap insurance . WEBSITELINK Thank you for reading my response . Please let me know if I can help you with your specific situation .
Yes . You can apply for a new Medigap plan at any point during the year . People often change their Medigap plans for a number of reasons , the most common being : You want to reduce your expenses by securing a lower premium from a policy with the same benefits -LRB- purchasing a Plan F with company B and dropping the existing Plan F with company A -RRB- . - this is the most common reason why people change their Medigap plans . Medigap plans are standardized so the coverage under a plan F is the same regardless of the company it 's through . So often people want to look at lowering their premiums when their policy gets hit with a rate increase . You may not need/want all of the benefits you 're paying for or you need/want more benefits than you have under your existing plan . Please note , if you do not have a guaranteed-issue right to purchase a Medigap plan without any medical underwriting , you would have to answer the health questions on the application . Medigap plans are guaranteed renewable . So in the event you could not medically qualify for coverage under a new Medigap plan , you always have the option of keeping what you have . I hope the information is helpful - please feel free to contact me for assistance with your Medigap coverage , including quotes and plan comparisons , and if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
If you have a Medicare Advantage Plan you can switch to a Medigap Plan during AEP -LRB- Annual Election Period -RRB- . Unless you are in a Guaranteed Issue situation , you will have to medically qualify for a Medigap Plan . There are other times during the year that you can switch from a Medicare Advantage Plan to Medigap . If you have Guaranteed Issue Rights , you can purchase a Medigap Plan in your state during your Guaranteed Issue period . Some Guaranteed Issue situations include : 1 . Your Medicare Advantage Plan is leaving Medicare or stops giving care in your area . 2 . You move out of your Plan 's service area . 3 . You joined a MA / MAPD when your were first eligible for Medicare Part A at 65 and within the first year of joining , you decide to switch back to Original Medicare . 4 . You dropped a Medigap Policy to join a MA / MAPD for the first time . You 've been in the Plan less than a year and you want to switch back . 5 . You leave a MA / MAPD because the company has n't ' followed the rules -- or misled you . MA = -LRB- Medicare Advantage -RRB- MAPD = -LRB- Medicare Advantage Prescription Drug -RRB- Thank you for reading my response .
Yes and no . You can not be turned down for Medigap Insurance if : You are in your Open Enrollment Period -- the one-time only , 6 month period that allows you to buy any Medigap policy you want that is sold in your state -LRB- starting the first month you 're covered under Medicare Part B AND you 're 65 or older -RRB- . During this period , an insurance company can not deny you a Medigap policy . Your Medicare Advantage Plan is leaving Medicare or stops giving care in your area , or you move out of your Medicare Advantage Plan area . You have orignial Medicare and an employer , retiree , union , or COBRA coverage that is ending . You move out of the service area for your Medicare SELECT policy . When you were first eligible for Part A at 65 , you joined a Medicare Advantage Plan or PACE program and you decide within the first year of joining to switch back to Original Medicare . You dropped a Medigap policy to join a Medicare Advantage Plan for the first time , it 's been les than a year and you want to switch back . The Medigap insurance company that holds your policy goes bankrupt , or your coverage otherwise ends through no fault of your own . However ... If you already have a Medigap policy and want to switch to another company , you will be required to answer health questions on the application . All insurance companies are unique with their medical underwriting guidelines ; but , you must be approved in order to buy a Medigap policy . If you have original Medicare Part A and B and are outside the Open Enrollment Period , then you will also be required to answer health questions to be approved through the medical underwriting process . Every individual case is unique and an agent who specializes in Medicare Supplement insurance , can help you determine your ability to get Medigap insurance . If I can be of assistance , please call me at 1-888-411-1329 .
You are allowed to switch from a Medicare Advantage plan under certain conditions . If you are 65 or older and have been on Medicare Part B for less than 6 months you can switch to original Medicare and a Medigap . If you are in your Advantage trial right period , you can switch to Medigap . If you can pass underwriting requirements , you can switch to Medigap .
Yes . Generally , if you 're on Medicare Advantage , you can only apply for a Medigap plan during the annual enrollment period -LRB- October 15-December 7 -RRB- because this is the time when you 're able to leave your Medicare Advantage plan . You would be subject to the medical underwriting process -LRB- answering the health questions on a Medigap plan application -RRB- . To buy a Medigap plan without medical underwriting , you would need to qualify for a guaranteed-issue right . In the case of when you have Medicare Advantage , you would have to meet one of the following conditions : 1 -RRB- You have a Medicare Advantage plan and your plan is leaving Medicare , stops servicing your area , or you move out of the plan 's service area . Please note , you have to go back to original Medicare -LRB- Part A & B -RRB- coverage to qualify for this guaranteed-issue right . 2 -RRB- You joined a Medicare Advantage plan when you were first eligible for Medicare Part A at age 65 and within the first year of joining , you decide you want to switch to original Medicare -LRB- known as a `` trial right '' -RRB- . 3 -RRB- You dropped a Medigap policy to join a Medicare Advantage plan for the first time , have been in the plan less than a year , and you want to switch back -LRB- this is another type of `` trial right '' -RRB- . 4 -RRB- You leave a Medicare Advantage plan because the company has n't followed the rules , or it misled you . These 4 items are from Medicare 's website and can be found in your Medicare & You guidebook - copies are available on the Medicare.gov website -LRB- I can also e-mail you one if needed -RRB- . I hope the information is helpful - please feel free to contact me for assistance with your Medigap coverage including quotes and plan comparisons , and if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
You can switch Medigap policies at any time , but it is important to understand potential obstacles . If you are outside of your Medigap open enrollment period -LRB- the 6-month period that begins on the first day of the month in which you 're 65 or older and enrolled in Part B -RRB- , then you will likely have to go through health underwriting to switch to a new plan or insurance company . Some companies do allow you to change your Medigap Plan if you remain with them , e.g. going from a Plan F to a Plan G , without new health underwriting ; but if you change insurance companies you will have to answer all health questions on the application . A new insurance company may deny you coverage based upon evaluation of your current health , so you may not be able to switch your Medigap policy to a new company . It is important to work with a licensed and experienced agent who can place you with a reputable company for the long term when you are in your Medigap open enrollment period .
Typically , when you 're on original Medicare -LRB- Parts A & B -RRB- and you have a Medicare supplement -LRB- Medigap -RRB- plan , you will not need to have an additional health plan . Original Medicare -LRB- parts A & B -RRB- cover approximately 80 % of your healthcare expenses - Medigap plans will pay all or a portion of the other 20 % . If you have group coverage as well , you would be spending extra money on those premiums unnecessarily . You can not be forced to go on her group health insurance if the two of you got married - it 's only an available option for you . If you have a Medicare supplement plan other than a plan F or plan G , I would recommend switching to one of those two plans before adding yourself to your fiance 's group coverage - it would save you countless dollars by comparison . Plan F provides full coverage - every other plan provides good coverage , but you will share some of the expenses . I would recommend consulting with an experienced independent Medigap broker who can review your specific situation and help you determine the best course of action . I would also suggest reviewing the Medigap plan you currently have to see if there are better rates available -LRB- the plans are standardized meaning you regardless of which carrier it 's through , the benefits are exactly the same - plan F from company A is the same as plan F from company B -RRB- . Changing a Medigap plan can be completed at anytime during the year - you do not have to wait for the annual enrollment period like you would with prescription drug plans or Medicare advantage plans . I hope the information is helpful - please feel free to contact me for assistance with your coverage -LRB- my background is in senior insurance -RRB- and if you have any further questions . Thanks very much .
Yes , you can change from Medicare Advantage to Medigap . You must first disenroll from your Medicare Advantage Plan and switch back to original Medicare . If you joined a Medicare Advantage plan when you first signed up for Medicare and are changing to Medigap within 12 months , you can choose from any Medigap policy . If you had a Medigap policy , switched to Medicare Advantage , and decided within 12 months to go back to Medigap , you can get your old policy back if it is still available . However , it will no longer have the prescription drug coverage . You may be able to get that from Medicare Part D.
You can switch your Medigap Plan at any point throughout the year . You do not have to wait for AEP -LRB- Annual Election Period from Oct. 15 - Dec 7 -RRB- . AEP only applies to Medicare Advantage and Prescription Drug Plans . If you are not in your Open Enrollment Period or another Guaranteed Issue situation , you 'll have to medically qualify for a new Medigap Plan . This means you have to answer health questions on the insurance application and then get approved through the medical underwriting department . To see if you are still in Open Enrollment or any other Guaranteed Issue situation , it is best to contact Medicare or an independent agent specializing in Medicare Supplement insurance . If you have to qualify medically for a new Medigap Plan , an independent agent can review your health history and let you know which insurance companies you may qualify with . There are many reasons why you may want to switch Medigap plans -LRB- lower premium , more benefits , less benefits -RRB- . Please feel free to read this article which gives a little more detail about changing your Medigap insurance . WEBSITELINK Thank you for reading my response . Please let me know if I can help you with your specific situation .
The great news is people can switch a Medigap Plan anytime it benefits them and they do n't need to wait for a certain enrollment period . The Medigap open enrollment period is a 6 month period when a person is 65 years old and gets Medicare Part B . It allows the individual a one time period where they can apply for a Medigap Plan without answering any health questions . However , even after the open enrollment period people over 65 switch plans all the time to save money or improve their benefits . There is usually a dozen or so health questions that are focused on big health issues in the last 2 years . A good independent agent that specializes in Medigap Plans will be able to go over those questions with you and help you pick the carrier that meets your needs the best .
This is a common question most people have and the answer is yes , you can switch your insurance at any time . There is no mandate which states that you can not switch your insurance but the question is should you switch your insurance ? There are several things you want to consider before switching your auto insurance . The most common reason people switch their insurance is because of price . You will find that most states file insurance rates in January and June . So keep in mind depending on when you decide to switch your policy you could be hitting a price increase or decrease depending on what the state has filed . Switching your insurance once or even several times could actually hurt you . Companies are beginning to offer discounts such as loyalty discounts which dont kick in until you have been with them for so many years . Even though you may be saving $ 50 - $ 100 switching to another carrier you could be losing a lot more than that by not staying with your current insurance company . You may find loyalty discounts to range from 5 % -20 % depending on the company which could save you hundreds of dollars . But every situation is different so be sure to consider when your switching your insurance and what discounts you may or may not be losing .
Most people can switch Medigap companies . If your premium is getting too high , it 's a great idea to have it reviewed and see if you can qualify for a rate reduction with another insurance company . If you are out of your initial Open Enrollment period or not eligible for a Guaranteed Issue situation , you will have to medically qualify for a new Medigap Plan . If you can qualify medically , you can switch Medigap companies any time of the year . Qualifying means you have to answer the health questions on the insurance company application . The insurance company will usually do a phone interview with you and verify your prescription drugs . They will not have anyone come to your house and perform a medical exam . All insurance companies are unique with their health questions -- as is each individual 's health . One company may deny coverage based on diabetes while taking blood pressure medications while another company will approve coverage . You just never know ; that 's why it 's in your best interest to work with an agent who has access to many insurance companies . If I can assist you with your personal Medigap needs , please feel free to contact me .
You first want to research the types of benefits available under a Medigap plan , decide which of these benefits you want , and then select the Medigap policy that meets these needs . All of the Medigap plans are standardized so the benefits under a given plan is the EXACT same from every carrier . So how do they differentiate themselves in that type of marketplace ? They feature different rates , rating methods - community rated , issue age rated , and attained age rated , and value added services -LRB- e.g. UHC plan members can get discounts for vision or dental services and access to the senior sneakers program through AARP -RRB- . A lot of people think `` Why do n't I just get a plan F ? All of the benefits available are included in that plan ! '' While this is true , this plan is also going to be the most expensive . If you 're on a fixed income , you may want to try to keep your cost down . Therefore , a different plan may be more appropriate for you . For example , a plan G offers all of the same benefits as a plan F , except for the Medicare Part B deductible -LRB- $ 147 for 2014 -RRB- . However , a plan G is going to be cheaper than a plan F -LRB- and usually by a good margin -RRB- . Plan N can also reduce premiums by a substantial margin and offer great coverage as well - the difference from plans F & G being a small copay is due when you go to the doctor -LRB- up to a $ 20 copay -RRB- or the hospital -LRB- up to a $ 50 copay -RRB- and excess charges are not covered . Plan N is most useful for someone who 's doctors accept Medicare and accepts assignment -LRB- when accepting assignment , a doctor accepts the Medicare-approved amount as payment in full and can not bill you an excess charge -RRB- . Another major point to keep in mind is where your health is now and where it may be in the future because you might not be able to switch to another Medigap plan later if your health drastically changed down the line , you may not be able to qualify for a new plan if medical underwriting is required . The rating method a carrier uses is an important factor to consider here . You also need to find out which carriers offer the plan in your area . Remember to keep in mind that not every carrier offers every plan . Because there are many health care plan options available to seniors , it 's most helpful for you to work with an experienced broker who can guide you through all of these steps . Please feel free to contact me for help . Thanks very much .
Plan F is the most popular Medigap plan . Before buying one , you first want to research the types of benefits available under a Medigap plan , decide which of these benefits you want , and then select the Medigap policy that meets these needs . All of the Medigap plans are standardized so the benefits under a given plan is the EXACT same from every carrier . So how do they differentiate themselves in that type of marketplace ? They feature different rates , rating methods - community rated , issue age rated , and attained age rated , and value added services -LRB- e.g. UHC plan members can get discounts for vision or dental services and access to the senior sneakers program through AARP -RRB- . A lot of people think `` Why do n't I just get a plan F ? All of the benefits available are included in that plan ! '' While this is true , this plan is also going to be the most expensive . If you 're on a fixed income , you may want to try to keep your cost down . Therefore , a different plan may be more appropriate for you . For example , a plan G offers all of the same benefits as a plan F , except for the Medicare Part B deductible -LRB- $ 147 for 2014 -RRB- . However , a plan G is going to be cheaper than a plan F -LRB- and usually by a good margin -RRB- . Plan N can also reduce premiums by a substantial margin and offer great coverage as well - the difference from plans F & G being a small copay is due when you go to the doctor -LRB- up to a $ 20 copay -RRB- or the hospital -LRB- up to a $ 50 copay -RRB- and excess charges are not covered . Plan N is most useful for someone who 's doctors accept Medicare and accepts assignment -LRB- when accepting assignment , a doctor accepts the Medicare-approved amount as payment in full and can not bill you an excess charge -RRB- . Another major point to keep in mind is where your health is now and where it may be in the future because you might not be able to switch to another Medigap plan later if your health drastically changed down the line , you may not be able to qualify for a new plan if medical underwriting is required . The rating method a carrier uses is an important factor to consider here . You also need to find out which carriers offer the plan in your area . Remember to keep in mind that not every carrier offers every plan . As there are many health care plan options available to seniors , it 's most helpful for you to work with an experienced broker who can guide you through all of these steps . Please feel free to contact me for help or if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
You first want to research the types of benefits available under a Medigap plan , decide which of these benefits you want , and then select the Medigappolicy that meets these needs . All of the Medigap plans are standardized so the benefits under a given plan is the EXACT same from every carrier . So how do they differentiate themselves in that type of marketplace ? They feature different rates , rating methods - community rated , issue age rated , and attained age rated , and value added services -LRB- e.g. UHC plan members can get discounts for vision or dental services and access to the senior sneakers program through AARP -RRB- . A lot of people think `` Why do n't I just get a plan F ? All of the benefits available are included in that plan ! '' While this is true , this plan is also going to be the most expensive . If you 're on a fixed income , you may want to try to keep your cost down . Therefore , a different plan may be more appropriate for you . For example , a plan G offers all of the same benefits as a plan F , except for the Medicare Part B deductible -LRB- $ 147 for 2014 -RRB- . However , a plan G is going to be cheaper than a plan F -LRB- and usually by a good margin -RRB- . Plan N can also reduce premiums by a substantial margin and offer great coverage as well - the difference from plans F & G being a small copay is due when you go to the doctor -LRB- up to a $ 20 copay -RRB- or the hospital -LRB- up to a $ 50 copay -RRB- and excess charges are not covered . Plan N is most useful for someone who 's doctors accept Medicare and accepts assignment -LRB- when accepting assignment , a doctor accepts the Medicare-approved amount as payment in full and can not bill you an excess charge -RRB- . Another major point to keep in mind is where your health is now and where it may be in the future because you might not be able to switch to another Medigap plan later if your health drastically changed down the line , you may not be able to qualify for a new plan if medical underwriting is required . The rating method a carrier uses is an important factor to consider here . You also need to find out which carriers offer the plan in your area . Remember to keep in mind that not every carrier offers every plan . Because there are many health care plan options available to seniors , it 's most helpful for you to work with an experienced , independent Medigap insurance broker who can guide you through all of these steps and help you determine which plan is the most suitable option for you.I hope the information is helpful - please feel free to contact me for assistance with your Medigap coverage , including quotes and plan comparisons , and if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
There are different kinds of supplemental plans that are sometimes coupled with a Medicare Advantage plan . As others have pointed out , you do not need a traditional Medicare supplement -LRB- Medigap -RRB- plan in addition to your Advantage plan . Some carriers offer cancer plans , hospital indemnity plans and other single purpose plans . You will be told you need these plans to fill the gaps in Medicare Advantage plans and cover your out of pocket expenses in the event of a hospitalization or severe illness . Truth is , you do n't need these add on plans . Just a waste of your money and a way for the agent pushing them to pad his or her wallet at your expense . If you feel you will have difficulty paying your out of pocket expenses which can be several thousand dollars under a Medicare Advantage plan , you should consider switching to traditional Medicare and buying a Medicare supplement -LRB- Medigap -RRB- plan . Medigap plan N is a good transition product or for those on a tight budget , Medicare supplement plan Hi F. #GeorgiaMedigapPlanRates #GeorgiaMedicarePlans #GaMedigapQuotes
You can switch your auto policy at any time . The most popular motivation to switch insurance carriers is price . People are looking for the best price for there insurance all the time . Other reasons to switch would be a new car purchase or moving to a new state . Switching carriers is easy and there are many to choose from . Shopping your auto insurance around is a great idea to compare prices . Using and agent can help you find insurance carriers that you normally would not have access to but going direct to and insurer online is also beneficial cutting out a middle man and getting quotes instantly . Be sure to check the term dates , is it six months or a year policy ? This can effect the way you compare the premiums . You will want to match your old coverage with your new quotes . Make sure the coverages are the same or similar this can prevent a coverage gap where you thought you had coverage . If you new vehicle is n't so new any more you may want to lower the amount of coverage on a particular vehicle . This can help lower your premium on the new policy or you can amend you current one . So while you can switch you insurer at any time do your research and make sure that it works in your favor .
Every Medicare Beneficiary gets a 6 month period when you are allowed to buy any Medigap Plan that 's sold in your state . This Open Enrollment Period starts in the first month your ' e covered under Medicare Part B , AND you 're 65 or older . This Open Enrollment Period is only available one time . It 's a great opportunity to get a Medigap Plan during this time because you ca n't be denied a Policy due to current or past health conditions . If you 've been on Medicare Part B for more than 6 months , then you are out of the initial Open Enrollment Period . However , you CAN still apply for a Medigap Plan -- you 'll just have to answer the health questions on the application . If you already have Medigap coverage and want to switch Medigap Plans , you can apply for a new Plan any time of the year . Since there are many moving parts to Medicare , you may benefit from speaking with an agent who specializes in Medicare Supplement insurance . I am happy to help you with your specific situation .
The best Medicare supplement plan -LRB- Medigap -RRB- plan is the one that fits your own needs and budget . All Medicare supplement insurance plans with the same letter are identical in every way except price and there truly is no `` best '' company ... in spite of what some may tell you . Medigap plan F is the most popular , mostly because it is oversold . Far too many agents promote the plan because it is easy to explain . It is also the most expensive plan . I recently spoke with a couple that had a Medicare supplement plan F from a very well known carrier . The wife was quite adamant that she had shopped around and `` company M '' had the best rate . I did not want to argue , but I offered that , over the last 4 years I had sold maybe 3 policies with that carrier and it was only because the client insisted on buying from them . Then we compared rates on my most popular plan and discovered they could save over $ 1700 per year by switching plans . There is no single `` best '' plan or `` best '' carrier , but likewise there is no reason to pay more than you have to . #GeorgiaMedicarePlans
end question
start question
life-insurance
Who Can Be Trustee Of Irrevocable Life Insurance Trust ?
If it is the insured person 's estate who you are trying to protect , the insured person can not be trustee of an Irrevocable Life Insurance Trust -LRB- ILIT -RRB- . Any power to administer or change the trust is considered incidences of ownership , and thus defeats the purpose of the trust -LRB- which is to transfer ownership of the life insurance from the estate to the trust for tax purposes -RRB- . If it is a survivorship policy with your spouse , your spouse can not be trustee , either . In fact , if your spouse is beneficiary of the trust and is name trustee , your spouse needs to have a co-trustee for distribution of discretionary funds , It may be better to name a professional as trustee of the trust , although technically almost anyone can do it , with the exceptions noted above .
To create an Irrevocable Life Insurance Trust -LRB- ILIT -RRB- , start by meeting with your attorney to draft the trust . You yourself will not be able to make changes to it later so it is important to set it up correctly . It is also important that you set up an executor or trustee who you trust -LRB- the attorney who set it up is also often named trustee -RRB- . Then transfer Whole Life or Universal Life into the trust with the assistance of both your attorney and life insurance agent . Existing policies can be transferred with a change of policy owner form . New policies are set up with the irrevocable trust as owner . Once the Irrevocable Life Insurance Trust is active , you can visit with the trust executor about your ongoing wishes .
If it is the insured person 's estate who you are trying to protect , the insured person can not be trustee of an Irrevocable Life Insurance Trust -LRB- ILIT -RRB- . Any power to administer or change the trust is considered incidences of ownership , and thus defeats the purpose of the trust -LRB- which is to transfer ownership of the life insurance from the estate to the trust for tax purposes -RRB- . If it is a survivorship policy with your spouse , your spouse can not be trustee , either . In fact , if your spouse is beneficiary of the trust and is name trustee , your spouse needs to have a co-trustee for distribution of discretionary funds , It may be better to name a professional as trustee of the trust , although technically almost anyone can do it , with the exceptions noted above .
A life insurance trust is an irrevocable , non-amenable trust that is set up for the purpose of being owner and beneficiary of one or more life insurance policies . A life insurance trust generally exempts the life insurance policy from estate tax . The trust also can spell out how the Trustee should manage the death benefit so it best serves the needs of specified minors . Before deciding to set up a life insurance trust you should consult a reputable life insurance agent and lawyer . Some things to consider are that the Insured person can not be the Trustee , and only the Trustee can change the beneficiary . Also , the Insured person can not borrow from the life insurance policy .
To find out the cost of an Irrevocable Life Insurance Trust you would need to ask your attorney . It is not wise to set up an Irrevocable Life Insurance Trust with a software kit ; only an attorney with expertise in tax planning should set up this type of Trust . Once it is done , it can not be changed directly by the Insured , and the Trust is the Owner and Beneficiary of your policy or policies . That being said , if it is set up correctly and the Trustee is someone you trust -LRB- pardon the pun -RRB- , an Irrevocable Life Insurance Trust can save you a large amount of estate taxes and allow you to transfer your estate in an orderly way .
The most common trusts you see when looking at it in relation to life insurance is a revocable or irrevocable life insurance trust . When using a trust with life insurance , the trust will be the owner and beneficiary of the policy - whoever the trust is on will be the insured . When completing the application , you 're entering in the trust 's information -LRB- name of trust , date it was created , etc. -RRB- in the owner and beneficiary sections - some applications may have a separate trust information page to include as well . The carrier will also ask for a copy of the first several pages of the trust -LRB- needed for verification purposes -RRB- . The trustee of the trust will be the person signing the paperwork where it asks for signature of owner .
To write life insurance into trust , you first must form an Irrevocable Life Insurance Trust -LRB- ILIT -RRB- with the help of your lawyer . Set up the trust carefully and choose a person you can trust to be the trustee , because you will lose control over the policy and the trust once it is set up . Then purchase a new , permanent life insurance policy , or transfer one or more existing permanent life insurance policies into the trust with the help of your life insurance agent .
To set up an Irrevocable Life Insurance Trust -LRB- ILIT -RRB- , it is best to use an attorney who is an expert at tax laws to set up the trust . Then use a respected life insurance agent to help you obtain a policy , or transfer existing life insurance , into the trust . You will need to choose a trustee to administer the trust -LRB- this could be the lawyer -RRB- . Working together , you will get a trust that works for your lifetime .
life insurance proceeds are payable to an insureds estate , is their value includable in the insureds estate - The entire value of the proceeds must be included in the insureds gross estate even if the insured possessed no incident of ownership in the policy , and paid none of the premiums . -LSB- 1 -RSB- But proceeds payable to an executor in his or her individual capacity rather than as executor for the insureds estate were not treated as payable to the insureds estate by the Tax Court . -LSB- 2 -RSB- -LSB- 1 -RSB- . IRC Sec . 2042 -LRB- 1 -RRB- ; Est. of Bromley v. Comm. , 16 BTA 1322 -LRB- 1929 -RRB- . -LSB- 2 -RSB- . Est. of Friedberg v. Comm. , TC Memo 1992-310 . When are life insurance proceeds that are payable to a beneficiary other than the insureds estate includable in the insureds estate ? Proceeds are includable in an insureds gross estate if the insured legally possessed and could legally exercise any incidents of ownership at the time of the insureds death . It does not matter that the insured did not have possession of the policy and therefore was unable to exercise his or her ownership rights at the time of his or her death , -LSB- 1 -RSB- or that the insured was unable as a practical matter to effect any change in the policy because the policy was collaterally assigned . -LSB- 2 -RSB- The proceeds are includable even if the insured can not exercise his or her ownership rights alone , but only in conjunction with another person . -LSB- 3 -RSB- It has been held that an insured did not possess incidents of ownership where the insured had paid no premiums , did not regard the policy as the insureds own , and had made an irrevocable designation of beneficiary and mode of payment of proceeds . -LSB- 4 -RSB- But even if the proceeds are payable to a beneficiary other than the insureds estate , and the insured possesses no incidents of ownership in the policy , the proceeds are nevertheless includable in the insureds gross estate if they are receivable for the benefit of the insureds estate . Even though the insured retains no incidents of ownership in the policy , the proceeds may be includable in the insureds estate if the insured has transferred the policy within three years before the insureds death . -LSB- 1 -RSB- . Comm . v. Est. of Noel , 380 U.S. 678 -LRB- 1965 -RRB- . -LSB- 2 -RSB- . Est. of Goodwyn v. Comm. , TC Memo 1973-153 . -LSB- 3 -RSB- . IRC Sec . 2042 -LRB- 2 -RRB- ; Goldsteins Est. v. U.S. , 122 F. Supp . 677 -LRB- Ct. . Cl . 1954 -RRB- . -LSB- 4 -RSB- . Morton v. U.S. , 29 AFTR 2d 72-1531 -LRB- 4th Cir . 1972 -RRB- . Can an insured remove existing life insurance from his or her gross estate by an absolute assignment of the policy ? Yes , assuming the insured lives for at least three years after the assignment , the insured assigns all incidents of ownership , and the assignee is not legally obligated to use the proceeds for the benefit of the insureds estate . -LSB- 1 -RSB- If the form of the assignment reserves any incidents of ownership to the insured , the proceeds may be included in the insureds gross estate despite the insureds clear intention to transfer all ownership rights . -LSB- 2 -RSB- It has been held that where the insured had paid no premiums and had never treated the policy as his or her own , the insureds irrevocable designation of beneficiaries and mode of payment of proceeds was an effective assignment of all of the insureds incidents of ownership in the policy . -LSB- 3 -RSB- The amount of any premiums paid on the assigned policy by the insured may be included to the extent they are paid within three years of death . A reversionary interest in a policy is an incident of ownership if , immediately before the insureds death , the value of the reversionary interest is worth more than five percent of the value of the policy . -LSB- 4 -RSB- The insured will have no such reversionary interest , however , if the policy is purchased and owned by another person , or if the policy is absolutely assigned to another person by the insured . Regulations state that the term reversionary interest does not include the possibility that a person might receive a policy or its proceeds by inheritance from another persons estate , by exercising a surviving spouses statutory right of election , or under some similar right . They also state that , in valuing a reversionary interest , interests held by others that would affect the value must be taken into consideration . For example , a decedent would not have a reversionary interest in a policy worth more than five percent of the policys value , if , immediately before the decedents death , some other person had the unrestricted power to obtain the cash surrender value of the policy ; the value of the reversionary interest would be zero . -LSB- 5 -RSB- An insured was treated as holding a reversionary interest in a policy held in a trusteed buy-sell arrangement where the insured was considered to have transferred the policy to the trust and retained the right to purchase the policy for its cash surrender value upon termination of the buy-sell agreement . -LSB- 6 -RSB- However , a policy held in a trusteed buy-sell arrangement would not be includable in an insureds estate under IRC Section 2042 where -LRB- 1 -RRB- proceeds would be received by a partners estate only in exchange for purchase of the partners stock , and -LRB- 2 -RRB- all incidents of ownership would be held by the trustee of the irrevocable life insurance trust . -LSB- 7 -RSB- -LSB- 1 -RSB- . Treas. Regs . 20.2042-1 -LRB- b -RRB- -LRB- 1 -RRB- , 20.2042-1 -LRB- c -RRB- -LRB- 1 -RRB- ; Lamade v. Brownell , 245 F. Supp . 691 -LRB- M.D. Pa. 1965 -RRB- . -LSB- 2 -RSB- . Est. of Piggott v. Comm. , 340 F. 2d 829 -LRB- 6th Cir . 1965 -RRB- . -LSB- 3 -RSB- . Morton v. U.S. , 29 AFTR 2d 72-1531 -LRB- 4th Cir . 1972 -RRB- . -LSB- 4 -RSB- . IRC Sec . 2042 -LRB- 2 -RRB- . -LSB- 5 -RSB- . Treas. Reg . 20.2042-1 -LRB- c -RRB- -LRB- 3 -RRB- . -LSB- 6 -RSB- . TAM 9349002 . -LSB- 7 -RSB- . Let . Rul . 9511009 .
There are different costs associated with a life insurance trust . In the case of an irrevocable life insurance trust , there is a cost for establishing it which varies based on the complexity of the situation , your location and other factors . It is usually bundled in with other estate planning services . Estate planning attorneys in your area will give you a ball park estimate but trusts and related planning often start at about $ 2,000 . There are also maintenance costs , especially if a professional trustee is involved . These trusts usually go hand in hand with gifts to the trust to pay premiums and servicing related to the gift e.g. Crummy letters.These costs must be factored in when deciding if the trust should be created . If your situation warrants such a trust , it could be money well spent . Consult with an experienced estate planning attorney .
There are several options for the grantor in the selection of a trustee for an irrevocable life insurance trust : mature and responsible members of the family , fiduciaries of the family and a bank trust officer . Some grantors have also given power of attorney on the personal finances as trustee as well .
To terminate an irrevocable life insurance trust , you will need a provision in the trust that allows for that , and the assent of the trustee and beneficiaries of the policy . If this is not possible , you will need to appeal to the court system to terminate the trust . There are some conditions under which that can be possible . Check with an attorney in your state for details .
The main purpose of an Irrevocable Life Insurance Trust -LRB- ILIT -RRB- is to avoid the taxing of life insurance proceeds upon death of the insured . The trust becomes the owner of the life insurance policy alleviating the increased assets of the insured . Often spouses and or children become the trustees . Also , ILIT 's are used as a source of quick cash to pay estate tax bills without increasing the overall size of your estate .
Sure thing . People do it all the time . Why do they use a trust ? You certainly want to talk to an estate planning attorney about that . Get legal expert advice from a legal expert . But , I can tell you a few things as someone with many clients who have used a trust in their life insurance planning . Its a great way to keep large amounts of money out of your estate , and therefore out of the sights of the taxman . Estate tax bills can be a huge ; fortunately , legitimate legal tools such as trusts are available to minimize the bite . A number of trusts are available for use . Which one would be best , given your circumstances ? Ask your attorney . -LRB- And by the way : make sure its an attorney who specializes in estate planning . A lot of money is on the line here , and you want to make sure you get the best advice possible . Your real estate or commercial lawyer may be a good guy , but he doesnt have the specialized knowledge that an estate planning specialist has . -RRB- Remember that when you use a trust , you lose control . The trustee runs things . Thats why your choice of trustee is a key management decision . Give this a lot of thought . Ask your attorney about the legal and fiduciary responsibilities of a trustee . He or she can be liable if the policy inside the trust does not perform as outlined . This brings up the all-important function of a life insurance policy audit . On a regular basis , that policy should be reviewed to make sure it is meeting expectations . The cost , the benefit , and the guarantee period on the premium should all be verified . For example : what if a universal life product was used , but due to a price increase , the coverage will terminate 10 years earlier than scheduled ? Not a good situation . You dont want to be in a situation when the policy will have failed right when a claim is supposed to be filed . This means that your broker , your trustee , and your attorney need to buddy-up and work together to make sure your insurance trust and the policy it holds are doing their job .
Yes . There are two main life insurance trusts that people use - revocable and irrevocable life insurance trusts . People use life insurance trusts because there are tax advantages that it offers , helps protect the proceeds , and helps you distribute the assets to your children at the least possible cost . An irrevocable life insurance trust -LRB- ILIT -RRB- is a legal document set up to distribute life insurance proceeds in a specific manner , depending on how the trust is designed . ILITs receive special tax consideration from the IRS that is not given to life insurance policies that would otherwise be owned by a natural person or revocable trust . Since the trust is irrevocable , the terms of the trust can not be changed -LRB- think of it like putting the contents in a vault and throwing away the key - it ca n't be opened til the insured dies -RRB- . An ILIT can offer many substantial advantages to protect life insurance proceeds . It can also help you distribute your property to your children at the least possible cost . If you have a taxable estate , you have a choice - pay the tax with your own money or pay only a fraction of the tax and use someone else 's money to pay the rest . If you want to use someone elses money to pay the tax , you can buy a life insurance policy . The type of life insurance policy will depend on the specific circumstances , but is usually a survivorship universal life policy if used for estate tax purposes . The life insurance policy may be secured for pennies on each dollar of tax that you owe . By putting the life insurance policy in an irrevocable trust , the proceeds become available to pay taxes due upon death . A life insurance policy that you purchase will require the same premium whether you put the policy in the trust or keep it outside of the trust . If you put the policy in the trust , the death benefit is not included in the calculation of the size of the estate . This is a huge tax savings , especially if the proceeds are several million dollars . If you keep the policy outside of the trust , the proceeds will be included in calculating the size of the estate potentially increasing the size of the estate by a big margin , and you may therefore have to pay much higher estate taxes before any of the property can be distributed to your children or other beneficiaries . Please let me know if I can be of further assistance . Thanks very much .
There are two main life insurance trusts that people use - revocable and irrevocable life insurance trusts . People use life insurance trusts because there are tax advantages that they offer , they protect the proceeds , and helps you distribute the assets to your children at the least possible cost . An irrevocable life insurance trust -LRB- ILIT -RRB- is a legal document set up to distribute life insurance proceeds in a specific manner , depending on how the trust is designed . ILITs receive special tax consideration from the IRS that is not given to life insurance policies that would otherwise be owned by a natural person or revocable trust . Since the trust is irrevocable , the terms of the trust can not be changed -LRB- think of it like putting the contents in a vault and throwing away the key - it ca n't be opened til the insured dies -RRB- . An ILIT can offer many substantial advantages to protect life insurance proceeds . It can also help you distribute your property to your children at the least possible cost . If you have a taxable estate , you have a choice - pay the tax with your own money or pay only a fraction of the tax and use someone else 's money to pay the rest . If you want to use someone elses money to pay the tax , you can buy a life insurance policy . The type of life insurance policy will depend on the specific circumstances , but is usually a survivorship universal life policy if used for estate tax purposes . The life insurance policy may be secured for pennies on each dollar of tax that you owe . By putting the life insurance policy in an irrevocable trust , the proceeds become available to pay taxes due upon death . A life insurance policy that you purchase will require the same premium whether you put the policy in the trust or keep it outside of the trust . If you put the policy in the trust , the death benefit is not included in the calculation of the size of the estate . This is a huge tax savings , especially if the proceeds are several million dollars . If you keep the policy outside of the trust , the proceeds will be included in calculating the size of the estate potentially increasing the size of the estate by a big margin , and you may therefore have to pay much higher estate taxes before any of the property can be distributed to your children or other beneficiaries . Please let me know if I can be of further assistance . Thanks very much .
Many family members and professional associates are eligible . Interestingly , I find that the majority of my clients designate a brother or sister as the trustee . That makes sense . After all , people tend to trust a close family member on life-and-death issues . When the insured is no longer around , a trustworthy soul is needed to handle the money . And also to take care of surviving family members . Siblings fit the bill . But it must be emphasized that trustees have a huge responsibility with regards to the policy inside the trust . They really need to make sure that it is audited on a regular basis to confirm it is performing as expected . You know how people sometimes lose track of their life insurance ? How sometimes it doesnt perform according to projections , and additional premium payments are needed ? Or it runs out of cash sooner than expected ? Or the death benefit gets reduced ? Well , if you are the trustee of your brother or sisters life insurance trust , you dont want any of this to happen . You very well could be liable . The insured set up the trust with a strategy designed to provide a certain amount of cash to certain people at certain times . Your job is to make sure the train arrives on schedule . If , for whatever reason , that policy under-performs , the buck could very well stop with you . You do not want that hot potato , both for financial as well as family reasons . You dont want to let the people down whom your sibling trusted you to help . So , if you are the trustee , make sure that policy is audited on a yearly basis , and make any changes that are necessary .
Anyone who is not the insured , the insured 's spouse , or beneficiary to the trust . This would be a close friend or family member if the insured feels that this close friend or family member can be trusted . Alternatively , the insured could use professional trustee services found at any Trust company . Additionally , many attorneys will act as trustee for trusts that are drafted . Most of the time , there is a fee paid to the trustee in these last two examples for the services rendered .
In general terms , life insurance death benefit proceeds go direct to their beneficiaries , thus by passing the process of probate . If the life insurance policy owner is an irrevocable life insurance trust , then the proceeds are delivered to the trustee of the trust and distributed to the trust beneficiaries .
An irrevocable life insurance trust -LRB- ILIT -RRB- is a legal document set up to distribute life insurance proceeds in a specific manner , depending on how the trust is designed . ILITs receive special tax consideration from the IRS that is not given to life insurance policies that would otherwise be owned by a natural person or revocable trust . Since the trust is irrevocable , the terms of the trust can not be changed -LRB- think of it like putting the contents in a vault and throwing away the key - it ca n't be opened til the insured dies -RRB- . An ILIT can offer many substantial advantages to protect life insurance proceeds . It can also help you distribute your property to your children at the least possible cost . If you have a taxable estate , you have a choice - pay the tax with your own money or pay only a fraction of the tax and use someone else 's money to pay the rest . If you want to use someone elses money to pay the tax , you can buy a life insurance policy . The type of life insurance policy will depend on the specific circumstances , but is usually a survivorship universal life policy if used for estate tax purposes . The life insurance policy may be secured for pennies on each dollar of tax that you owe . By putting the life insurance policy in an irrevocable trust , the proceeds become available to pay taxes due upon death . A life insurance policy that you purchase will require the same premium whether you put the policy in the trust or keep it outside of the trust . If you put the policy in the trust , the death benefit is not included in the calculation of the size of the estate . This is a huge tax savings , especially if the proceeds are several million dollars . If you keep the policy outside of the trust -LRB- e.g. , as owned by a natural person or a revocable trust -RRB- , the proceeds will be included in calculating the size of the estate potentially increasing the size of the estate by a big margin , and you may therefore have to pay much higher estate taxes before any of the property can be distributed to your children or other beneficiaries .
end question
start question
medicare-insurance
What Is Medicare Exclusion ?
Medicare exclusion is the tool that is used by the Office of the Inspector General within the Dept of Health and Human Services . When confronted with misrepresentation , omissions or other forms of fraud in applying for or handling Medicare services or supplies , providers or supplies are excluded from receiving Medicare payments . It is a way of enforcing the terms of these contracts by excluding those who abuse them .
Remember every policy is different . Please read your policy completely to understand the coverage provided and any exclusions that there may be or contact your local agent to have them go over the policy with you . That being said . Below are some of the possible exclusions : A . We do not provide Liability Coverage for any `` insured '' : 1 . Who intentionally causes `` bodily injury '' or `` property damage '' . 2 . For `` property damage '' to property owned or being transported by that `` insured '' . 3 . For `` property damage '' to property : a. Rented to ; b. Used by ; or c . In the care of ; that `` insured '' . This Exclusion -LRB- A. 3 . -RRB- does not apply to `` property damage '' to a residence or private garage . 4 . For `` bodily injury '' to an employee of that `` insured '' during the course of employment . This Exclusion -LRB- A. 4 . -RRB- does not apply to `` bodily injury '' to a domestic employee unless workers compensation benefits are required or available for that domestic employee . 5 . For that `` insureds '' liability arising out of the ownership or operation of a vehicle while it is being used as a public or livery conveyance . This Exclusion -LRB- A. 5 . -RRB- does not apply to a sharethe - expense car pool . 6 . While employed or otherwise engaged in the `` business '' of : a. Selling ; b. Repairing ; c. Servicing ; d. Storing ; or e. Parking ; vehicles designed for use mainly on public highways . This includes road testing and delivery . This Exclusion -LRB- A. 6 . -RRB- does not apply to the ownership , maintenance or use of `` your covered auto '' by : a. You ; b. Any `` family member '' ; or c. Any partner , agent or employee of you or any `` family member '' . 7 . Maintaining or using any vehicle while that `` insured '' is employed or otherwise engaged in any `` business '' -LRB- other than farming or ranching -RRB- not described in Exclusion A. 6 . This Exclusion -LRB- A. 7 . -RRB- does not apply to the maintenance or use of a : a. Private passenger auto ; b. Pickup or van ; or c. `` Trailer '' used with a vehicle described in a. or b. above . 8 . Using a vehicle without a reasonable belief that that `` insured '' is entitled to do so . This Exclusion -LRB- A. 8 . -RRB- does not apply to a `` family member '' using `` your covered auto '' which is owned by you . 9 . For `` bodily injury '' or `` property damage '' for which that `` insured '' : a. Is an insured under a nuclear energy liability policy ; or b. Would be an insured under a nuclear energy liability policy but for its termination upon exhaustion of its limit of liability . A nuclear energy liability policy is a policy issued by any of the following or their successors : a. Nuclear Energy Liability Insurance Association ; b. Mutual Atomic Energy Liability Underwriters ; or c. Nuclear Insurance Association of Canada . B . We do not provide Liability Coverage for the ownership , maintenance or use of : 1 . Any vehicle which : a. Has fewer than four wheels ; or b. Is designed mainly for use off public roads . This Exclusion -LRB- B. 1 . -RRB- does not apply : a . While such vehicle is being used by an `` insured '' in a medical emergency ; b. To any `` trailer '' ; or c. To any non-owned golf cart . 2 . Any vehicle , other than `` your covered auto '' , which is : a. Owned by you ; or b. Furnished or available for your regular use . 3 . Any vehicle , other than `` your covered auto '' , which is : a. Owned by any `` family member '' ; or b. Furnished or available for the regular use of any `` family member '' . Page 4 of 13 ISO Properties , Inc. , 2003 PP 00 01 01 05 However , this Exclusion -LRB- B. 3 . -RRB- does not apply to you while you are maintaining or `` occupying '' any vehicle which is : a. Owned by a `` family member '' ; or b. Furnished or available for the regular use of a `` family member '' . 4 . Any vehicle , located inside a facility designed for racing , for the purpose of : a. Competing in ; or b. Practicing or preparing for ; any prearranged or organized racing or speed contest .
-- > Normal 0 The Best homeowners insurance policy is the one that is going to do what you want it to for what you are willing to pay . So what do you want it to do ? Pay for any damage to your home ? The Best policy would guaranty your home would be repaired or rebuilt if damaged by any cause . All policies will have exclusions or limitations . The Best policy will have the fewest exclusions or limitations . Reimburse you for loss or damage to your personal property ? The Best policy will repair or replace -LRB- new for old -RRB- your property should it be damaged from any cause . Again , most policies will have exclusions and limitations , the Best policy will have the fewest exclusions and limitations . The Best policy will include a Personal Liability limit not less than $ 300,000 and offer a good Personal Umbrella should you need or want higher limits . The Best policy will be offered by an agent or insurer who will take the time to alert you to all the policy amendments available to address your specific needs . The Best policy will be offered by an agent or insurer who will stand with you should a claim occur and help you return to your pre-loss position . In my opinion , the Best policy will be the one that will do all the above for the most favorable premium .
Good question . Typical homeowners exclusions are flood , wear & tear , intentional acts and mechanical breakdown . Many policies will have exclusions for trampolines , water damage , wind exclusions , etc. . It 's very important that you check your individual policy for your specific exclusions . Usually towards the end of the policy you will see the exclusionary endorsement list . If you have any questions I would contact your independent insurance agent that holds the policy .
It is always best to talk with your Insurance Professional about the specific terms , conditions and possible limitations of your policy . However , there are usually two specific perils that are excluded from coverage under a Homeowners policy . One exclusion is damage caused by earth movement . These can include things like earth quake , sink hole and the like . This exclusion may be removed by the addition of an endorsement . The other common exclusion is damage causewd by a flood . This exclusion may not be covered by endorsement to your policy but only by the purchase of a sep -LSB- arate Flood Insurance policy .
-- > Normal 0 The Best homeowners insurance policy for you is the one that is going to do exactly what you want it to for approximately what you are willing to pay . So what do you want it to do ? Most likely , fix your house or repair or replace your personal things should they be damaged . If so , the Best policy for you would be the one that would guaranty just that . No policy will do that as all policies have some exclusions and limitations , but the Best policy for you would have the fewest exclusions or limitations . I suggest the Best policy would include Guaranteed Replacement Cost and all-risk * coverage on your home , all-risk * Replacement Cost coverage on your personal property . The Best policy for you would include Personal Liability coverage with a limit not less than $ 300,000 . Should you need higher limits , a good Personal Umbrella endorsement should be available providing a broad insuring agreement and few exclusions . The Best policy will be offered by an agent or insurer who will take the time to alert you to all the policy amendments available to address your specific needs . The Best policy will be offered by an agent or insurer who will stand with you should a claim occur , treat you professionally and help you return to your pre-loss position . The Best policy would be offered by an insurer who would not cancel you or increase your premium the first time you had a claim . The Best policy would be offered by an insurer willing and able to insure your car -LRB- s -RRB- at a reasonable price even though you might have young inexperienced drivers . If an insurance company is not willing to do provide these essential services , I question if they should be considered for any part of your business .
It is impportant to remember the two most common exclusions in most Homeowners policies to begin to explore this question . Flood damage is always excluded and such protection is only available through the purchase of a separate Flood Insurance policy . The other common exclusion , which more closely begins to deal with this question , is damage to property caused by earth movement . Any earth movement that you can think of usually falls into this category of exception including earth quake , sink hole , settling , frost heave etc. . So the exclusion alone , if it is found in your policy , would be enough to deny coverage for such a loss . Always talk to your Insurance Professional about the specific terms , conditions and exclusions in your policy .
Some homeowners insurance policies do provide coverage for mold . The mold would have had to of been caused by a covered loss and even then there are exclusions that will apply and possibly a deductible . Read over your policy completely to know what coverage is provided and the exclusions within it or contact your local agent to have them go over the coverage and exclusions of your policy .
No intentional acts are considered one of the standard exclusions in most insurance policies ... strongly advise anyone always reads what is not covered in the insurance plans ... or in other words the exclusions . It is as important to understand what is and is not covered in the insurance plans . You can always ask in advance of you purchasing the insurance plan for a copy of a specimen policy . This way you can know what is and is not covered .
A typical renters insurance policy can contain many exclusions and these exclusions can vary from carrier to carrier . Flood damage and intential acts are typically not covered by renters insurance . Please read your policy completely to understand the coverage provided and the exclusions contained within or contact your local agent to have them go over the policy with you .
If you 're pregnant during the disability insurance underwriting process , then you will receive an exclusion for anything pertaining to pregnancy . After you 've had a normal childbirth , you can apply to have the exclusion removed . As long as you had no complications , it 's pretty easy to get the exclusion removed . But if you 're hoping to get DI coverage in case the pregnancy does n't go well , then that wo n't work .
Most accidental death policies have an exclusion for suicide , which means it will not pay the benefit for death caused by suicide . If you can find a copy of your father 's policy , there will be a section listing exclusions . If you can not find a copy , you could call the company he got it through and ask them to look up the exclusions for you . This must be a horrific time for you , so feel free to contact me directly if you 'd like me to assist you .
Even though most homeowners policies are written on an all-risk policy , it has several exclusions . The first issue is that it doesnt cover normal deterioration , wear and tear . It is designed to make you whole if you suffer a covered loss . The two most significant exclusions are damage caused by flooding and by earth movement . These coverages can be purchased but at additional premium . There are additional exclusions , such as insect infestation . There are also some limits placed on coverage for things such as jewelry , guns , stamps and cash .
To add to Peggy 's response , many carriers will write a disability policy , but they 'll add a pregnancy exclusion . After a normal childbirth -LRB- no C-section or complications -RRB- , the exclusion can be removed . If yourmind is on DI , it 's better to get the policy now and have the exclusion removed at a later date . Once the kiddos are running around the house , it 's harder to find time to get the exams completed , or worry about financial documents . Do it before your life gets too crazy !
The two most common exclusions found in Homeowners insurance policies have to do with damage caused by two elements : earth and water . An exclusion for damage caused by earth movement is pretty common . Earth movement can be anything from earth quake , to sink hole or erosion or the like . In many cases , coverage for this may be able to be endorsed onto your policy . Coverage for damage caused by flood is a common exclusion and this protection is only available by purchasing a Flood Insurance policy .
Most if not all standard Homeowners Insurance policies list a couple of pretty common exclusions in the language of the contract . Earth movement is one of these common exclusions . That certainly included earthquake damage but also includes sink holes , any form of erosion etc. . This coverage can usually be endorsed onto your Homeowners ' contract however . The other common exclusion is Flood . Unlike earth movement , flood coverage can never be endorsed on a homeowners policy . The coverage is only available by the purchase of a separate Flood Insurance policy .
This would be known as mysterious disappearance . Most home owners policies will provide a limited amount of coverage less a deductible for personal property . You can also schedule items of greater value to provide higher limits of coverage . Please read your policy completely to know what coverage is provided and what the exclusion there are or call your local agent to have them explain the coverage offered and exclusion within the policy .
If you have a roadside assistance endorsement on your auto policy , you may be covered for the expense of towing , a rental and possible a night stay at a hotel . A lot of companies are offering policies with roadside assistance as part of their full coverage package . As always read your policy completely to know what the coverages are and what the exclusions are or call your local agent to have them explain the coverage and exclusions of the policy .
Unfortunately in most cases it will not . Unless the overflow was casused by a covered peril it would not be covered . Things like this are considered to be part of home maintainance under normal circumstances . Read your policy completely to know what coverage is provided and what exclusions are within the policy or contact your local agent to have them go over the policy with you to explain the coverage and exclusions .
If your personal property is damaged or destroyed due to a covered loss , you will be covered up to the limits of the policy less any deductible and pending any exclusions or item specific limits within the policy . Please read your policy completely to know what coverage you have and what exclusions there may be or contact your local agent to have them go over the policy with you .
end question
start question
life-insurance
Is My Life Insurance Policy Part Of My Estate ?
Yes , the death benefit that your beneficiary would receive is considered part of the value of your estate . If you passed away leaving a surviving spouse , your spouse would not have to pay any federal estate tax , regardless of the size of your estate . If no spouse is surviving at the time of death , there is a 5.25 million dollar exemption , plus any exemptions remaining from when the first spouse died . Only the amount beyond that exemption is taxed . State estate taxes have their own exemptions and regulations , depending on the state .
Why buy whole life insurance ? Well I bought whole life for several reasons , maybe they apply to someone else , maybe not . Life insurance is a personal choice . I can only really tell you why I bought it over term . First , I planned on living as long as possible , term does not work if I do that . Then I like that the death benefit increased over time to help battle inflation . I liked that the cash values were mine to do with what ever I like with . I do n't have to ask permission to take money out or put money back , it is mine to decide . I like that the price is locked in . I like that the insurance company can not come back later and increase my costs . I have control . I like that when my health changed and I became uninsurable that I had policies I controlled that they could n't price me out of or change the terms of . They were mine , purchased when my health was excellent . Twenty years later , when my health went south , the policies did n't . I like that my cash values did n't count against my kids FASFA contribution count . I really like that in 2008 when my real estate , market investments all took a big dump on my portfolio , my whole life did n't go backwards in value . In fact that year it was my most profitable portfolio item . I like going to sleep at night knowing my policies will be there for my family if I do not awake , but I really like that these policies will not let me down or be subject to the extreme market ups and downs that the rest of my portfolio is . This is just a few things I can mention . There are many many more but hey it comes down to what you actually want to happen , not what somebody else tells you what you should want . If it does n't fit what you want , do n't buy it .
That is a great question ! The terms used in life insurance policies can be confusing . There are three entities in a policy - the owner , the insured , and the beneficiary . The easiest one is the beneficiary - the person or entity -LRB- trust , estate , etc. -RRB- that receives the benefits from the policy . They receive these benefits when the insured passes away . The insured is the person whose need was the reason for the policy . Here 's where it can be confusing . The owner is the person who has legal rights to the policy on the insured . That legal title gives them right to change some of the moving parts of the policy , including the beneficiary . In many cases , the owner and the insured are the same person . I buy a policy on my own life . I am the owner and the insured , and I name my wife as my beneficiary . I retain the option to change the beneficiary -LRB- should she pass first God forbid -RRB- and the right to use the cash value within the policy . If I bought a policy for my children , I would own the policy , but my child would be the insured , and my wife and I the beneficiaries . I can transfer that ownership to my child once they are able to make the payments , and manage the policy successfully . Once they own the policy , they are free to change the beneficiary to whomever they choose -LRB- their wife or child , say -RRB- . Hopefully that clears things up for you . If it does n't please feel free to contact me , and I 'll walk you through it some more . Thank you for asking !
Is life insurance necessary for a single person ? I will answer based on my reasons for having life insurance when I was a single person , it is up to the reader to decide if that is a good reason or not . As a single person , I still had a mom , and had I died , it would fall upon mom to clean up my stuff . In no particular order the reasons for owning life insurance at that point in time in my life . I just died , I 'm sure that 's a whammy to my mom . I just died without life insurance sorry for the `` double whammy '' mom . My service ? Mom , I 'm sure you can borrow the money to bury me . Or tap your retirement plan or home equity ... My debts ? Well I 'm sure you do n't mind the calls and letters or even that college loan you cosigned for me paying it back after I just died . Time off your work mom ? I 'm sure if I die on a Saturday , you 'll be back at work on Mondaylike nothing happened and certainly your bills are paid well enough in advance that you can take unpaid time off to grieve . My dog , mom . Here 's my dog . take care of him for me will ya ? If I have n't listed enough reasons for a single person to consider the need for life insurance , well I guess I did it for dumb reasons . It could be your mom , dad , brother , sister or a good friend , why buy life insurance as a single person ? Cause you care enough about the people who care enough about you . For me , it was my mom . Now it 's my wife and kids . They actually would hate to lose me , I actually would hate to put a burden on their shoulders when I die , tomorrow or 50 years from now .
Life insurance is one of the investments that allows an individual to trade a low monthly ; payment for a life insurance policy that has a protection amount that is much higher than my monthly payment . If my monthly payment is $ 100 month and I have a policy of $ 500,000 do you consider that money well spent . The Life Insurance policy can aslo enable tax managment strategies if it is a `` cash value '' policy '' . The `` cash value '' builds and as long as I do not withdraw the earnings it is not taxable . So if I have had this policy for 18 years and my `` baby '' is now grown and driving my Subaru and needs money to go to college I can pull the cash value at intervals that allows me to minimize my consequences and my `` baby '' slides off to college . Is that a good `` investment vehicle '' ? Life Insurance also enables Estate Planning strategies enabling me to pass assets to my children without huge tax consequences .
Life Insurance passes by contract law . So if I have a $ 500,000 policy upon my death , assuming my wife is my beneficiary , the funeral home provides a `` death certificate '' to my wife who then files a claim with my insurance company and the proceeds is not tied up in my estate .
The answer to your question has many parts to the final answer . Let 's assume I just got married and my phone has been ringing incessantly with insurance agents pedaling their life insurance policies . My wife and I know it just makes good sense to have life insurance-my policy covering her and vice versa . The question is given my occupation and I do not want her to work how do I plan `` how much '' life insurance ? My employer can provide $ 50,000 for me and I am not taxed as long as I stay at or below $ 50,000 . So from a cost standpoint that $ 50,000 is a given . I hope to have two children to keep my wife happy and raising kids . We know it takes a huge amount to just raise the kids much less educate them . We also know if I am smart at some point in my life I will be smart to have saved enough money to get out of the life insurance market and have savings to pay any funeral costs that may arise . So on today 's date I know my `` insurance needs '' is at the highest point it will ever be assuming the two children are born and then we can avoid the `` steamy ` Saturday and be careless and now the third is here . So if I assume the first child will be born in two years that means in year 20 I have to have `` college expense '' funds '' . Is it a better investment to use life insurance or it better to open a mutual fund aggressive growth and invest a $ 100 pewr month for the next 20 years ? Let 's assume the second child in born in our fourth year of marriage . Now the same decision outlined above is with me again . What is often overlooked is the assumption is I will remain healthy and my income will increase each year . What happens if I become ill and diabled for two years ? What disablity insurance plans do I have ? Do they cover my `` own occupation '' or if I can flip hamburgers I am not considered disabled . In order to make an informed decisions you have to consider all the options . Is it best for me to take a Gerber Life insurance policy on each child for $ 20,000 , which then doubles , at their age 18 ? If I am confident that I can save sufficiently for the next 30 years I may decide to take a $ 1,000,000 30 year term policy but if I am not confident of my ability to save then I am sure going to use the `` dollar cost averging '' advantages of having a `` cash value '' policy and a mutual fund in the aggressive growth and invest $ 100 per month . I ho ; pe this helps you to see the complexity of your question .
I am working on a case right now in which my client has applied for 11 policies . Here is the breakdown : He is a partner in one business with two other fellows . They have just completed a buy-sell agreement and are funding the agreement with life insurance . Per the advice of their accountant and their attorney , they are purchasing several policies to cover both the current and the anticipated future value of the business . One policy will be owned by the business , and four other policies will be owned by a trust . That gives us five policies so far . My client is also a partner in a second business , with another fellow . They are following the same funding strategy . That business will own one policy , and the trust will own an additional four . Our count is now up to 10 policies . But these policies take care only of business needs . My client is also married with children . He needs life insurance for family protection . So he is purchasing yet another policy for their benefit . That gives us 11 . The underwriter is fine with this set up . My client can justify the need for all policies financially . All policies have been deemed appropriate with regard to the financial needs of the business and the financial needs of his family . And you know what ? He could buy more if he wanted to . Lets suppose he supported a number of charities . They could be religious , or social service , or political . He could take out a separate policy for each of their benefit . Five charities , five more policies . But we have another consideration . What if his net worth is over $ 5 million , and he wants to preserve his estate for his heirs ? What if he wants to avoid forcing his family to liquidate his assets just to pay Uncle Sams estate tax bill ? He could buy life insurance to cover the tax bill . Another policy . We are not done yet :-RRB- . What if his parents were financially dependent on him . It happens . What if his premature demise would put them in financial straits ? He could buy life insurance on himself for their benefit , so they could be well taken care of . Do you realize that in this scenario , this one client could take out 20 or so policies ? And it would all be financially justified and appropriate . How do you like that ? Would you like to keep learning ? Read my blog : planrisklive.com
As someone who has owned a life insurance policy since age 19 let me express it this way . You need life insurance if there is somebody in your life who will have to pick up your mess and settle your affairs . At 19 , the purchase of life insurance made perfect sense to me as I had a mom and a dad and if something happened to me , It would fall upon them to take care of my loose ends , arrange my service and maybe need some time off . This was long before I entered the insurance world as an agent . It just seemed to me , if I had died , it made sense to help my parents with the cost of dealing with my death . I figured my death was bad enough for them to deal with , my bills , my apartment and my service would just be piling on to a bad situation . So this is how I look at this situation `` does everybody need life insurance ? '' No , they do n't , but I feel sad for the person who has no need for coverage as it means there 's nobody that matters in their life enough to protect from their passing from it .
Financial Planning is a process that provides a client with impartial assistance in analyzing and organizing personal financial affairs in order to achieve financial and lifestyle goals in a tax effective manner . Estate Planning is Financial Planning starting with the end in mind . The principal objective of estate planning is to ensure that your property is managed most efficiently during your lifetime and that your wishes are carried out most effectively after you die . Life insurance can be used in numerous ways to help you achieve your estate planning objectives . In fact , there are too many to be completely covered here , so I will provide a few examples to give an overview . Life insurance can be used to create an estate -LRB- wealth -RRB- : - Cash at death to retire your debts - Leave your survivors with a home - An income for your family - An emergency fund - An education fund - and more Life insurance can be used to conserve an estate : - Cash at death to pay the tax and estate fees and avoid a bargain estate sale . An example would be that bills are due at death and your assets are in bricks and mortar . In order to generate cash , your heirs may have to sell at a loss to pay taxes and other bills . - Cash at death to provide for favourite charity . - Cash at death for estate equalization , you want to give a fixed asset to one heir and to be fair , provide cash to another . - Business life insurance to protect an important asset . There are a number of additional strategies available that use life insurance to conserve or increase the value of your estate and to provide you with living benefits as well . It all depends on your individual objectives . There is additional information on Estate Planning on my website www.jpw.ca If you have further questions , or feel that I could be of assistance , please do not hesitate to contact me . If you would like to work with a local life insurance broker , you could start with a Google search . For example , if you search for : life insurance broker Halifax or life insurance agent Halifax , my name , along with several others , will come up . You can use the same method to find a life insurance broker in your community .
This is an outstanding question ! It goes to the heart of how best to protect your family , and sort through all of the choices out there . It can be scary trying to figure out who has the ` best deal ' and since most people do n't understand a lot about insurance , how not to get taken . I think it is fair to say also that people do n't have a high opinion of insurance to begin with , so agents are n't seemingly much better . So why not just choose a policy from an on-line company or name brand company ? Here 's what I 'd say to you . I have always done business as much by my feel for the person as by their product . If my server does n't care about me or my meal , I do n't go back to the restaurant , or I only order carryout from them . If a bagger at the grocery store just throws my groceries haphazardly into the bags , I 'll look for a different line every time . I want to know that the person I 'm dealing with cares about me , and my business . I also want to know that I have some flexibility - if they 're the only bagger or server , I wo n't go back to those places . An independent agent can offer more options than a name brand office agent would . The name brand can only offer that companies policies , and prices . If their policy is the best one , and I feel the agent truly cares about me and my needs , I 'll buy from them . Chances are though , I 've met with at least one other independent agent -LRB- one not tied to a single brand name - I myself work with several -RRB- to shop prices and coverage before deciding . Again , how they presented themselves to me as they worked for my business was as much a consideration for me as the policy details . If I did n't feel like they cared about anything but the sale , I 'd leave , and thank them for their time . When the time comes that I need help -LRB- and it inevitably does -RRB- I want someone who cares and jumps to help , not someone who has to hunt to figure out who I am . i guess for me , I want a relationship with my business people , -LRB- and my clients -RRB- not just a transaction . I hope that helps you , and I thank you for asking !
It may not be a good idea to get more life insurance after getting a new mortgage . You may have enough already . Heres how you could find out . Ask yourself the following : Do I have enough coverage so that my spouse can pay off the mortgage if I pass away ? What if I take out a second mortgage ? Do I have enough coverage for that as well ? What if I feel I have enough coverage for both the mortgage and my dependents - but then have another kid ? Then I would need more of the benefit to replace my income , and so would have less to cover the bank debt . How about any other family obligations ? Are my parents financially secure ? Any chance one or both would become dependent on me ? If so , that would create a demand for more coverage . Any business obligations ? Is my partnership agreement funded ? The services of my key people indemnified ? Bank debt insured ? Estate preservation ? Charitable gifts ? Can you see where I am headed with all these questions ? If you have completed a financial needs analysis , covering both current and future needs for life insurance , then you could be pretty sure whether or not you have enough coverage . If you are like most other people , you dont . You will probably end up buying another policy :-RRB- .
Why would you buy whole life ? Here 's why I bought it . I wanted lifetime coverage as I do n't think I would die in 10,20 or 30 years . I was young enough to purchase a fair amount of coverage because I was in good health and purchased it at a locked in price . A price that they ca n't come back and raise on me . The WL offered reasonable safe growth , certainty that allowed me to take more risk with my other investment choices . My whole life became `` if I screw everything else up , this wo n't let me down . '' My safety net . After 20 plus years of ownership , whole life has done what it promised me , been there when I needed it and did n't go backwards in 2008 when ten years returns were wiped off my mutual fund accounts and my home value dropped 40 % . My boring steady unexciting whole life remained faithful to me . Now in my 50 's as a type II diabetic who just had his heart rebooted -LRB- cardioversion -RRB- because of A FIB , I really really appreciate the fact I `` OWN '' my policy . They ca n't raise the price , they ca n't end it . I did n't rent it , I OWN it . Maybe some readers will get how important that is . For all the financial gurus who may have said this was a bad idea , I have to ask why are so many people in their 60 's seeking new insurance ? Could it be they listened to the wrong people when they were younger and healthier ? There are a ton of reasons to own whole life , there is . All I can say is it is the most boring product you can buy . It will do what it 's supposed to , without fanfare or up and down excitement . It 's the most boring financial product you can `` OWN '' . I hope that makes sense to some who read these posts .
What is the BEST life insurance company to work for is a really good question for a person looking to get into the business of life insurance . And Paul 's answer above here is an excellent answer ! I took it to be an opinion type question so I 'll give you my opinion as my answer . -LRB- In fact I really wanted to see how others answered this for my own curiosity ! -RRB- I have now worked for three different companies , but I really believe it depends more on the particular Agency you are associated with as to how much satisfaction and happiness you will derive . My set of values - which I believe most insurance agents share with regard to the business - makes me want to be sure that I 'm guiding my clients to the best possible product and company . What is best for the client will depend on the specific needs of the client . In my opinion the best product in the business of life insurance is Participating Whole Life , so I want to be working with the company that has the best value in participating whole life . As a new agent you will want to get the best training . Again I believe the Agency makes the most difference . Both the Guardian and NY Life have intensive training programs . Quite different from each other , but both good . MassMutual has the highest dividend interest of all the mutual companies and in my experience really lives by their motto , `` What 's Best for the Client '' . To that end they utilize a brokerage agency that allows their agents to shop some 50 other providers for products such as term policies that they do n't offer and to find the best deal for the client . They also have different contracts that an agent may choose from with which to associate themselves .
This is the question millions of Americans will be asking themselves over the next few months and it is a crucial one . There are many factors involved in your decision to purchase individual major medical insurance . Some crucial ones are ; 1 -RRB- Will my or my family 's expected income for 2015 fall in the range that would qualify me/us for a premium subsidy and possible cost sharing reductions for coverage purchased through the government health insurance marketplace -LRB- 100 % to 400 % of the Federal Poverty Level -RRB- ? 2 -RRB- If I do qualify for a subsidy is it enough to influence my buying decision ? Premium subsidies peak in the 250 % to 300 % of the Federal Poverty Level zone and decline rapidly from there . For example , an individual making $ 40,000 / yr would technically qualify for a subsidy but the dollar amount would be small enough that you may decide its not worth the trouble -LRB- this may be especially true in states with limited carrier choices in the government marketplace -RRB- . 3 -RRB- Are the doctors , hospitals and pharmacies I want to use in-network providers with the health plan I am considering enrolling in ? 4 -RRB- What is the coverage for prescription drugs in the plan I am considering ? Are the prescription drugs I am already taking covered by the formulary of the health plan I am considering ? And , if they are , at what level are they covered and might I be forced to revisit the steps that led me to finding the prescription medication that works for me and my health condition before my new health plan would cover them ? 4 -RRB- What coverage does the health plan I am considering offer outside of my home area ? Can I plug into a national network of providers wherever I might be or is my coverage largely restricted to my home service area ? 5 -RRB- If I am diagnosed with a serious illness like cancer will the health plan I am consider cover services from providers like M.D. Anderson , the Mayo Clinic and other nationally recognized centers of excellence ? The consumer can no longer just assume that this will be the case . While these questions do n't cover all the questions a person should ask , if you get the answer you like for the questions I 've posed you will have a much higher probability of being satisfied with the health insurance plan you select . For the vast majority of people , you will be better served to seek out the services of an experienced health insurance agent who is familiar with the insurance carriers available in your market and who can help guide you to the plan the best suits your needs whether it is inside or outside of the government health insurance marketplaces .
You should purchase life insurance when you feel it is appropriate . I purchased my first whole life policy when I was 18 years old . I wanted to pay for my final expenses , establish my insurability and I looked to the policy to help me save money in a disciplined manner . When I married , I increased my policy to provide for my brides needs should I die prematurely . I still buy life insurance and am contemplating an additional purchase .
My parents applied for Long Term Care Insurance many years ago , and my mother was able to qualify for it , but my father was not . My father 's declined over these many years , and toward the end , it was a worry whether my mom could continue to care for him or not . Thankfully , she was , but it was a difficult situation , to say the least . Now my mom has long term care insurance and you can tell it brings her peace . Even though she does not have anyone at home to care for her , like she did for Dad , she will have the funds to do what she needs to do if she can not care for herself . This personal experience has made it more real to me that , if you are not close to qualifying for Medicaid , you should probably have Long Term Care Insurance .
The principal objective of estate planning is to ensure that your property is managed most efficiently during your lifetime and that your wishes are carried out most effectively after you die . Since life insurance creates tax free cash at death it has many applications in Estate Planning . Life insurance can be used to create an estate , to provide cash to take care of your family after you are gone . Life insurance can also be used in estate conservation and estate equalization . Once you have determined your objectives and calculated the need for cash to pay taxes , fees and other costs , nothing delivers cash at death as effectively as life insurance . Another use is estate equalization , in a situation where you want to give a fixed asset to one heir and balance it out with life insurance cash to another . In business situations , life insurance can be used to provide the cash not only to pay taxes and fees , but also to fund a buy sell agreement between partners . If you have further questions , or feel that I could be of assistance , please do not hesitate to contact me . If you would like to work with a local life insurance broker , you could start with a Google search . For example , if you search for : life insurance broker Halifax or life insurance agent Halifax , my name , along with several others , will come up . You can use the same method to find a life insurance broker in your community .
First , let me say I am not an accountant or tax expert at all . This questions would be best answered by a Certified Public Account or other tax pro . I can only speak to my personal situation . For years we did n't have a group plan through my company and I had individual/familycoverage that I paid for out of pocket . I also have family members who have some health issues that included specialists , a lot of RX drugs , etc. . Simply due to the cost of the health coverage , we had to go with a high deductible health plan as well . So , over the course of a year we would have our health premiums , high deductibles , plus a bunch of specialist costs that were not even covered by our insurance . This generated a ton of dollars that came out of my pocket personally . There is a threshold for medical expences -LRB- I do n't remember what it is -RRB- where anything over an above that figure is deductible on your tax return . I have been well over that figure every year for the last 5 or 6 , so I have been able to deduct a good amount of my out of pocket expence . This is just my personal situation and again , I am not a tax professional of any sort . All this was done on the advice of my personal accountant . I would highly recomend you contact a tax professional and discuss your individual situation with them .
Video Transcript : Today 's question is , `` How much life insurance is considered enough ? '' Well , I definitely want to cover all my indebtedness : mortgages , credit card , auto , home , all my debts that I may incur . I also want to look at future obligations ; maybe my children 's college education , my retirement or replacing my income if I 'm not there so that my spouse or business partners or beneficiaries are not saddled without any income coming in that I used to generate . So it 's really important . How much do I need ? I want to try to buy what I need to cover all those areas and then maybe a little bit more in case I have charitable intent . A lot of people have big hearts but small wallets and sometimes I add that on because people want to be able to give something in case something happens to them . Well , that 's our consumer question for today . If you have any questions , just send them to www.insurancelibrary.com
end question
start question
other-insurance
Why Are Insurance Companies Able To Discriminate ?
Imagine that I own a brand new Corvette and you own a five year old Fiat . Would you want to pay the same amount for auto insurance as me ? What if I only drove my car on Sundays and only went 20 miles and always had my mother in the seat with me , while you drove 700 miles a week on foggy dangerous roads . Should we pay the same amount ? But my mother is a previous race car driver and has three moving violations in the past 30 days . You have a perfect driving record . Should we pay the same amount ? I dont call that discrimination , I call that adjusting the risk . The insurance company calls it underwriting .
Adding to what Scott said , insurance companies are just like all other financial institutions in that they try to operate at a profit . Forcing an insurance company to provide benefits to everyone regardless of their individual risk profile is like demanding that banks loan money to everyone under the same terms and conditions regardless of the individual 's credit worthiness .
I think Discriminate depends on how you mean it . In cases of offering a product , a carrier can not discriminate by race . A carrier can not discriminate beyond what the state they are doing business in allows . In some states this may mean unisex pricing or outlawing `` red lining '' in others . Any insurance plan MUST be approved by each state 's department of insurance and subject to a review prior to allowing the product to be sold . An insurance carrier may be able to create separate classes within a type of policy by showing the statistical probabilities behind doing so . Women tend to live longer than men , This can be shown statistically so separate pricing can discriminate between the two sexes . This could be applied to smoking , weight , year of birth , health conditions and so on . . So if an insurance company can show a statistical difference based on gathered information , they can `` discriminate '' that way `` if '' the state allows it . What they ca n't do is take two people who are the same in every way and deny coverage for A while taking B into the plan .
They price their products based on risk . That 's what insurance is . If you have a lot of tickets you are likely to wreck your car . You should pay more than a safe driver pays for auto insurance . You are riskier . If you have bad health , you have to pay more for health insurance and life insurance . You are more likely to be making claims on the insurance sooner . To not charge you more would require charging more to healthy people . Health insurance is changing from true insurance to an entitlement program . This will make it less costly than it is now for unhealthy people but it will raise rates for all the healthier and younger ones . It should be a good change but time will tell . But to answer your question ... would YOU want to be the insurance company and charge a 16-year old male driver with three tickets the same rate as the 45-year old woman with no tickets . If you answer yes , you should open an insurance company . You will get a lot of young customers before you go broke .
I think Discriminate depends on how you mean it . In cases of offering a product , a carrier can not discriminate by race . A carrier can not discriminate beyond what the state they are doing business in allows . In some states this may mean unisex pricing or outlawing `` red lining '' in others . Any insurance plan MUST be approved by each state 's department of insurance and subject to a review prior to allowing the product to be sold . An insurance carrier may be able to create separate classes within a type of policy by showing the statistical probabilities behind doing so . Women tend to live longer than men , This can be shown statistically so separate pricing can discriminate between the two sexes . This could be applied to smoking , weight , year of birth , health conditions and so on . . So if an insurance company can show a statistical difference based on gathered information , they can `` discriminate '' that way `` if '' the state allows it . What they ca n't do is take two people who are the same in every way and deny coverage for A while taking B into the plan .
They can as long as they are not discriminating within a class of employees . For example , it is not uncommon for an employer to contribute on dollar or percentage amount towards the coverage of salaried employees and another dollar or percentage amount towards hourly employees . This is quite common where a labor union collectively bargained agreement is in place . Where an employer can get in trouble is where they choose to discriminate within the same class of employees . So , as a general rule all salaried employees should be treated the same from an employer contribution standpoint as should be the case with all hourly employees . Contributing 50 % of the cost for one salaried employee and 75 % of the cost for another similarly situated salariedemployee could be the grounds for a labor discrimination lawsuit for the employer .
An employer can not discriminate against an employee based upon their age -LRB- among a multitude of other factors -RRB- . However , that does not necessarily mean that an older employee who compares what they are contributing towards their employer based health insurance with a younger co-worker of the same coverage level will find themselves paying the same amount . This may initially be perceived by the older employee as though they are being discriminated against but this is almost certainly not the case . If your employer 's group health insurance rates are age based rates then there is a different rate for each year of age for a covered employee . The community rating requirements of ObamaCare have pushed many health insurance carriers towards this age rated basis though some health insurance carriers still develop a `` composite '' rate for a group after quoting them on an age rated basis -LRB- composite rates are one rate for every employee with Employee Only , Employee + Spouse , Employee + Child -LRB- ren -RRB- or Family coverage regardless of the employee 's age -RRB- . This is how things work under community rating . First of all , there can be no more than a 3 to 1 ratio between the rates for the youngest and oldest employees in the group . To keep things simple let 's say the monthly rate for a 25 year old is $ 200 per month then the monthly rate for a 60 year old would be $ 600 per month . Then let 's say that your employer pays 50 % of the employee only rate which leaves the other 50 % for the employee to pay . Under this scenario the 25 year old 's cost would be $ 100 per month -LRB- $ 200 x 50 % -RRB- and the 60 year old 's share would be $ 300 per month -LRB- $ 600 x 50 % -RRB- . Even though the dollar amount paid by each employee differs significantly the employer is treating them the same in that the employer is contributing the same percentage amount towards each employee 's coverage . Therefore , there is no discrimination . This is one of the effects of ObamaCare that is increasingly being seen by employees as their old health insurance plans and rate structures are being replaced by ObamaCare compliant plans and the new community rating method .
All group retirement plans that are covered by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act ERISA are based on some formulaic process . This formulaic process is used to ensure against discrimination in the plan . Federal law defines discrimination as a plan that too heavily favors highlight compensated employees . Highly compensated employees are employees who earn over a certain amount in annual income , as of 2013 that amount is $ 115,000 .
A Safe Harbor 401 -LRB- k -RRB- plan generally satisfies the non-discrimination rules for elective deferrals and employer matching contributions . For a 401 -LRB- k -RRB- plan to be considered a Safe Harbor plan , employers must satisfy certain contribution , vesting , and notice requirements . So , let 's say you have 25 employees , but only a third of them choose to put money into the plan . There 's a formula that limits the amount you can personally contribute to a traditional , non-Safe Harbor plan . Under a Safe Harbor401 -LRB- k -RRB- , if you 're willing to make a minimum contribution on behalf of your employees , you 'll be able to maximize your own personal contributions to the plan .
Long term care insurance provides benefits that extend beyond those paid under Medicare and most private insurance . The benefit is normally paid in months and at a predetermined level . The extremely helpful insurance is sometimes offered as a benefit by employers . If the employer pays the premium , the employer is able to deduct that cost from his own taxes as a reasonable business expense -LRB- employee benefit . -RRB- The employee does not incur any income tax liability as a result . When a benefit is received it comes to the employee free of income tax . There arent any non-discrimination rules that require an employer cover all of the employees . Executives should consider accepting an Employer Paid Long Term Care Insurance policy in exchange for a salary reduction . It is a win situation for the employer and also a win situation for the highly valued employee . This benefit can be combined with a more comprehensive medical health care plan that includes additional benefits such as a comprehensive annual physical examination . This benefit can also be combined with a supplemental disability benefits program for valuable employees . Employer paid long-term care insurance is often combined with retiree medical insurance . Among employers the trend is to reduce or eliminate retiree medical benefits to the rank and file employees . For highly compensated employee there is a trend towards cost sharing arrangements for medical expenses after retirement .
The testing done by a life insurance company is a function of cost . Companies conduct as little testing as possible . Companies are now screening the medications prescribed . Reporting facilities can take one or two prescriptions and find out every drug that is prescribed to you . That gives the underwriter a pretty clear idea of your medical condition . Some testing of blood and urine is done . Other companies are using oral swabs . These techniques are designed to reduce cost and still discriminate acceptable from unacceptable risks .
Insurance companies analyze the data on millions of automobile claims . In that process they identify significant differences in experience . If women are charged less in your state than men , you can be assured that insurance companies can detect a difference between the two and that they have convinced the insurance commissioner that this is in the best interest of the drivers in that state . California doesnt discriminate based upon sex .
Post-traumatic stress disorder -LRB- PSTD -RRB- has a couple of diagnostic items to review that seem to accompany this psychiatric condition . PSTD has secondary complications such as drug and/or alcohol abuse is indicator that the recovery has not been initiated . Two other items are difficulty holding down a job or divorce , sometimes spousal abuse occurs . Some life insurance companies discriminate PTSD between domestic and combat orientation . Ongoing management medication may also debit the underwriting balance sheet . All health considerations taken into account , PTSD should be standard issue with most impaired risk life insurance companies .
A Top Hat plane is a form of Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation -LRB- NQDC -RRB- . These plans are not governed by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act -LRB- ERISA -RRB- and are not concerned with discrimination as defined by the Act . Employers have the option to implement the plans and offer them on employees of its choosing . The plans are generally used as incentives to keep certain employees from leaving a company by offering them an extra incentive to stick around and work for the company .
The Retirement Plan Administrator typically is responsible for administering all aspects of the plan for the plan sponsor -LRB- normally a company sponsoring the plan -RRB- . Some of the duties include providing summary of the plan to participants , selecting investments for the plan , enrolling plan entrants in a timely manner . Most plan administrators will contract with a third party to help with all the responsibilities , including filing Form 5500 -LRB- like a tax return for retirement plans -RRB- and often the testing required by the government to make sure the plan is not discriminating higher income employees over the lower income employees .
A `` Safe Harbor '' retirement plan is one of the most popular 401 -LRB- k -RRB- retirement plans in the business community . Safe Harbor plans eliminate some of the administration hassles of adhering to IRS non-discrimination testing while maintaining the basics of a pretax defined contribution plan like a tradition 401 -LRB- k -RRB- plan .
Yes . Being a tobacco user is about the only thing it is legal to discriminate against though under the Affordable Care Act so you may be assessed a tobacco use penalty , especially in the individual health insurance market but such penalties are becoming more common in the group market as well . The law allows up to a 50 % surcharge to be applied to your premiums though some states have set the surcharge at a lower level and not all carriers have opted to apply the tobacco penalty on their products .
Well , there really is n't an on the record answer for this . Older employees tend to cost more to provide health insurance for . Medical plans go one of two ways . One way is a level premium for all employees in the group . This is based on `` averaging '' the premium cost among the group . This is also done for gender . The other way is known as `` banded coverage '' where group premiums are grouped , usually in 5 year blocks and rates vary based on ages . You would hope an employer would n't use the medical premium cost as a hiring means test . It would possibly be considered age discrimination .
This probably depends upon the state where you live . A landlord can , normally , set conditions for renting property . They are generally not allowed to be discriminatory . If the landlord requires renters insurance from all tenants he should not be considered to discriminate . By requiring you to buy a renters policy he is clearly establishing that he is not responsible for your property while at his premisesyou are ! If someone comes on to the property at your invitation , he isnt responsible for bodily injury or property damageyou are !
Imagine that I own a brand new Corvette and you own a five year old Fiat . Would you want to pay the same amount for auto insurance as me ? What if I only drove my car on Sundays and only went 20 miles and always had my mother in the seat with me , while you drove 700 miles a week on foggy dangerous roads . Should we pay the same amount ? But my mother is a previous race car driver and has three moving violations in the past 30 days . You have a perfect driving record . Should we pay the same amount ? I dont call that discrimination , I call that adjusting the risk . The insurance company calls it underwriting .
end question
start question
medicare-insurance
What Would Happen If There Was No Medicare ?
That 's a great question ! Also not one easily answered ... On one hand if there were no programs , we 'd have a significantly smaller Government budget , and a whole lot less debt and worry about that future debt . There would be a more open market for health services , and a greater dependency upon the honesty of the provider when they tell you they love you more than their profits . The other side of the story ? As there are approximately 10,000 people turning 65 everyday , most with little or no retirement plans other than social security -LRB- which puts them well below poverty level in most cases -RRB- and no provision for protection from the increasing costs of long term care , we would probably find that the mortality rate among the +65 set would dramatically rise , and life expectancy lower , as a result of them not being able to afford the medical services that would be otherwise available . What makes your question really interesting is its natural follow up - `` what do we do to fix the system so the most people can benefit ? '' That 's the real question ! Thanks for asking !
If Medicare did n't exist , health insurance care for seniors would be covered in the same marketplace as the under 65 persons - in short , the private sector . However , the premiums would be substantially higher than what they pay today for Original Medicare and any supplemental coverage programs , including prescriptions -LRB- a big expense -RRB- . During your working life , you 're paying FICA taxes - after you 've hit the 40 quarters mark -LRB- 10 working years -RRB- , your Part A coverage is premium-free . If you had to pay for it out of pocket , it would be $ 426 per month -LRB- in 2014 -RRB- . Your Part B coverage requires a premium -LRB- $ 104.90 per month in 2014 -RRB- and you would pay a premium for any supplemental coverage - supplement plans are provided by private insurance companies . The idea of paying taxes all these years for it is so that you 're slowly paying for it in advance so you 're not hit with a massive premium bill in the future that you may not have prepared for . In summary , a senior citizen could end up paying somewhere in the neighborhood of $ 800 + per month per person with everything factored in -LRB- probably higher -RRB- if Medicare did n't exist . As a current or future recipient of Medicare , I bet you 're glad it exists . In the future , however , programs and benefits may have to make changes given the baby boomer generation hitting the retirement ages and going on Medicare - the baby boomer is the largest generation and can create a situation where the funds going out to pay for Medicare are larger than the funds coming in through taxes . Only time will tell on this aspect though . If you have any questions about Medicare supplemental plans , send me a message by clicking on the `` contact me '' button or call me at 703-665-9133 .
In an attempt to fairly answer a hypothetical question ... if there were no Medicare I believe we would be forced back to a private , capitalist healthcare system where Americans are n't required to have coverage subject to a penalty and the society -LRB- young & old -RRB- would have to get their own coverage . The downside is that Baby Boomers are maturing at such a rapid-pace , insurance companies could possible gouge the insured in the form of premiums out of greed . The upside is it would release an enormous -LRB- and almost unsustainable -RRB- financial burden on the American economy and government . The budget for Medicare alone in 2013 was ~ $ 585 bil . For more information on Medicare -LRB- or lack there-of -RRB- visit www.clminure.com or call 561-320-2978
I ca n't think of a situation where it would n't be required . Your mortgage company has just lent you a bunch of money to buy a home . They need to be sure that , if something happens to the home , it will be restored to what it was before anything happened . They 're just protecting their investment . The bigger question is `` why would n't you want to insure your home ? '' . You just made a big commitment and have a lot of money on the line . If something happened to your home , what would you do ? Yes , premiums for homeowners insurance are high , but not as high as the repairs you 'd have to pay for if you did n't have insurance . Plus , it not only protects the house , but everything in the house . Most people do n't think they have a lot of money tied up in their `` things '' , but they 'd be astonished to find out what it would cost to replace it all .
Having two health insurance programs generally happens when a person is eligible/signed up for Medicare Part A -LRB- premium-free -RRB- , but is still working and has group health insurance coverage through their employer . When this happens and the group coverage pays first and Medicare pays second , the group coverage will pay its share and whatever the balance is will go through the Medicare 's claims department - Medicare will pay their share up to the Medicare-approved amount . You will be responsible for paying any remaining balance after that . Most of the time if you 're paying for Medicare Part B , you 're not going to be paying for group coverage as well - you would either have group coverage + Medicare Part A or Medicare Part A + Part B . If you 're on Medicare Parts A & B , I highly recommend adding a Medicare supplement -LRB- Medigap -RRB- policy to help cover the gaps in coverage provided by Original Medicare -LRB- Parts A & B -RRB- .
what happens to my life insurance when I retire ? If the life insurance is provided by your employer it will depend on what they offer . It might end immediately , it might carry on into retirement or you might be offered to carve out an individual policy from the group plan . There is n't a single answer as plans are different . If you `` own '' the policy what happens to your life insurance is what ever you want to have happen to it .
A retirement plan really is an extension of a financial plan.There are two parts . Your financial planner may be qualified to help you with both as a retirement planner or work with a lifestyle planner . The first step is determining what you want to do when you retire . How do you define retirement success ? Deciding when you will slow down and what you will do with your time - your lifestyle can be a challenge . Once you have an idea what retirement success looks like for you then your financial planner can determine what it will cost to make what you want to happen happen . The next step is to design a plan to make it happen . Then take action and follow up . If you have further questions , or feel that I could be of assistance , please do not hesitate to contact me . If you would like to work with a local Retirement Planner , you could start with a Google search . For example , if you search for : retirement planner Halifax or retirement planning Halifax , my name , along with several others , will come up . You can use the same method to find Retirement Planners in your community
What happens when your term life insurance ends ? What will happen is this : you will take out your checkbook , remember what your premium used to be , breathe heavy sigh , and then make your check payable for a much larger amount . In my career I have seen renewal premiums literally 10 times the original rate . Yes , 10 times . Doesnt always happen , but it does happen . And you will not know how high the increase will be until you get your renewal notice . They dont tell you in advance . Why would an insurance company slam you on the renewal ? Several factors could be involved . One is that they are a little bit concerned about their reserves . They need to bulk up . Another could be that they feel the credit market is a little bit tight . So they need to store up some money in case they cant go out and get enough new money . Perhaps they feel the whole block of term business is not profitable . Maybe there is a big fat insurance company lurking in the wings ready to buy them , and they consider the term business to be a liability . So they will jack up the rates to get rid of a lot of policies . -LRB- To tell you the truth , I need to learn a little bit more about this last reason myself . Most people keep paying term premiums , dont die , and then drop their policies anyway . So the insurance company has received a bunch of money without paying any out . Why not keep the renewal rates more reasonable to hold onto these customers ? -RRB- But the net result of these high renewals is that the only people who hold on to their policies are people who really need the coverage , and feel they have no other option . They feel that their medical history or lifestyle risks would make them ineligible for coverage , or make a new policy too expensive . The fact of the matter , though , is that they may indeed qualify for a better rate elsewhere . They should get prequalified and really see what the market has to offer . They may very well be surprised . And if they dont get a better deal , then the term conversion rider in their policy may be an option . As long as they are not over the maximum conversion age , they could lock into permanent rates . And they dont have to convert the entire face amount at once : it could be done in stages , to better manage cash flow . Thanks for asking . Want to learn more ? Review my blog at planrisklive.com .
Only you can answer this question of Life Insurance being essential . For those of us who see the financial loss in families who lost a parent or spouse , Life Insurance relieves financial stress allowing you to take care of what is most important , your family . YES , I believe life insurance is essential . Life Insurance provides you or rather your beneficiary with monies otherwise would not be available . You need to look at what is important in your life , who depends on you , your family , perhaps your business and look at what will happen if you are not there `` tomorrow '' . What will happen financially and how would you relieve that financial stress .
That is a very good question ! You are kind of between a rock and a hard place . If you contact them , and have a ` safe driver ' bonus , you could lose that , and with the subsequent rate increase , -LRB- if there is no first accident forgiveness plan -RRB- you might well exceed the expense of the repairs . On the other hand , if you do not know the person that she hit wo n't be the type that later claims back injuries or some such thing , and takes you to court -LRB- I 'd wonder about this if he or she documented and/or took pictures , and your wife did n't -RRB- , without the power of your insurance company behind you , you could be in a bigger mess . Another consideration is your deductible - if it 's more than $ 700 , you would end up paying that much anyway , and run the risk of a rate increase . If coming up with $ 700 is an issue , and you have a low deductible , then having the insurance company pay may be an option . Perhaps a good thing to do might be to contact your agent , and tell them you and your wife were talking about what would happen if one of you were to have an accident , and were not sure what would happen if so , and have them explain it to you . If it sounds good , then do it , if it sounds bad , then consider your risks of handling it out of pocket . Personally , I 'd probably call them , and explain it exactly as it happened , and trust my agent to what is best for me . I hope it works out for you , good luck , and thank you for asking !
Saving for retirement as a 30 year old you have an advantage over a 50 year old you have time . First thing to do is start saving regularly now . You should take advantage of tax deferral plans to get the full effect of compound growth . In Canada that mean Registered Retirement Savings Plans -LRB- RRSPs -RRB- and Tax-Free Saving Accounts -LRB- TFSAs -RRB- . If you have an employer that will contribute match your contributions take advantage - that is free money . Financial or retirement planner can help you determine what your specific portfolio should look like , depending on your risk tolerance and time horizon . Financial planning , Retirement planning and Estate planning are all integrated . What you do with one often affects the other . The first step in planning for a Good Retirement is to start saving regularly as early as you can . The challenge often is that retirement seems so far away that it is easy to put off . Now that you have started saving , what are you saving for ? Deciding what a successful retirement means to you can be quite challenging . What do you want to do for the rest of your life ? A lifestyle planner can help . There is some information on this topic under retirement on my website www.jpw.ca if you are interested . Now that you have a basic idea of what your successful retirement means , the numbers can be `` crunched '' . Your retirement or financial planner can fine tune your retirement planning to make what you want to happen , happen . What particular investment vehicles you should use , depends on your individual situation . Be sure to take advantage of retirement plans that are tax deferred -LRB- in Canada , RRSPs and TFSAs -RRB- . Tax deferral allows you to get the full effect of compound growth . If you have further questions , or feel that I could be of assistance , please do not hesitate to contact me .
I am going to take a philosophical approach to answering this question . I think it would help you understand the value you are getting for your dollar with this product . Lets suppose that you know with absolute certainty you are going to die next Tuesday . No doubt about it . Was definitely going to happen . Sad to think about , but hey - we are talking about life insurance . Now lets suppose that an insurance company is willing to insure you . -LRB- Yes , I know its crazy , but work with me here . -RRB- And lets suppose they are willing to offer you a $ 1 million policy . Would that be enough ? OK , lets say it would be . How much would you be willing to pay for that $ 1 million of coverage ? You know that the company is going to put out that money . The payout is guaranteed . And you know that the premium is going to be lower than the benefit . Even if you paid $ 900,000 for that $ 1 million dollar policy , you would still get a 10 % return on your money . By any standards , that is a good deal . If you had that money , no doubt you would pay it . And that would be a good deal for three reasons . One : your beneficiary would be getting money that was needed when they lose you . Two : there is an ironclad contractual guarantee from a very strong financial institution to give them that money . Three : the cost would be very reasonable and you would definitely get your dollars worth . All true ? So you would do everything possible to make this deal happen all because you know you are going to die next Tuesday . The only difference between this hypothetical scenario and real life is that you do not know when you are going to die . It could be tomorrow . It could be next Tuesday . I could be in 20 years . You just dont know . Otherwise , all factors remain exactly the same : You know you are definitely going to die sometime . You know your beneficiaries will need the money when they lose you . There is an ironclad contractual guarantee from a very strong financial institution to give them that money . The cost would be very reasonable and you would definitely get your dollars worth . The moral of the story is that regardless of the cost , life insurance virtually all the time remains a fantastic deal . You just have to be willing to pay for it . The better question is : what is the value of a good life insurance policy . Want to keep learning ? Read my blog : planrisklive.com
You have been operating your business for 6 years without incident which is great . This is the first claim -LRB- and hopefully last claim , -RRB- so I understand your concern about your premiums increasing next year . I 'm not exactly sure what your business does , but knowing what you do would help me to further figure out whether or not your premiums would increase because of this claim . When re-marketing your account with other insurance companies we would need to explain what happened and discuss the likelihood of this happening again . Insurerslook at the historical data associated with past claims , current trends , andalso consider estimations of future losses to help determinethe rates that they use.This is a great question and thereare several things you need to consider.When you get a moment , turn to the conditions section of your CGL policy . The conditions state what your duties are in the event of occurrence , claim , or suit . 1 . Notify company of occurrence a . You must see to it that we are notified as soon as practicable of an `` occurrence '' or an offense which may result in a claim . To the extent possible , notice should include : -LRB- 1 -RRB- How , when and where the `` occurrence '' or offense took place ; -LRB- 2 -RRB- the names and addresses of any injured persons and witnesses : and -LRB- 3 -RRB- The nature and location of any injury or damage arising out of the `` occurrence '' or offense . b . If a claim is made or `` suit '' is brought against any insured , you must : -LRB- 1 -RRB- Immediately record the specifics of the claim or `` suit '' and the date received : and -LRB- 2 -RRB- Notify us as soon as practicable If you read the `` Obligations at Insureds Own Cost `` condition it says : `` No insured will , except at the insured 's own cost , voluntarily make a payment , assume any obligation , or incur any expense , other than for first aid , without our consent . '' There are many questions that would need to be answered , but if I were you I would put my insurance carrier on notice that there has been an incident and let them take the reigns . Please contact me if you have any additional questions or concerns about this claim . I would be happy to help guide you in the right direction . Have a great weekend . Best , Josh DeBoer
Financial planning , Retirement planning and Estate planning are all integrated . What you do with one often affects the other . The first step in planning for a Good Retirement is to start saving regularly as early as you can . The challenge often is that retirement seems so far away that it is easy to put off . Now that you have started saving , what are you saving for ? Deciding what a successful retirement means to you can be quite challenging . What do you want to do for the rest of your life ? A lifestyle planner can help . There is addtional information on this topic under retirement on my website www.jpw.ca if you are interested . Now that you have a basic idea of what your successful retirement means , the numbers can be `` crunched '' . Your retirement or financial planner can fine tune your retirement planning to make what you want to happen , happen . What particular investment vehicles you should use , depends on your individual situation . Be sure to take advantage of retirement plans that are tax deferred -LRB- in Canada , RRSPs and TFSAs -RRB- . Tax deferral allows you to get the full effect of compound growth . If you have further questions , or feel that I could be of assistance , please do not hesitate to contact me . If you would like to work with a local Retirement Planner , you could start with a Google search . For example if you search for : retirement planner Halifax or retirement planning Halifax , my name along with several others will come up . You can use the same method to find Retirement Planners in your community .
Not normally . Your home insurance was designed to repair or replace your home if something covered happens to it . Usually , anything below ground is n't covered . Now , if your home is destroyed and the insurance company rebuilds your home , they will usually pay to hook your sewer up , but not to repair or replace the pipes . if you think about the things that can happen to a home , a sewer pipe really ca n't have those things happen to it . My big question here is : what the heck happened to your sewer pipes that you want covered ? Insurance is designed to repair damage that is sudden and accidental . There are n't many things you can do to a sewer pipe that are sudden and accidental . About the only thing I can think of is if someone working underground hits a sewer pipe and breaks it . In this case the company working there is responsible for any damage they may cause .
Im going to answer your question this way : Im going to describe for you the kind of person who buys life insurance and is really glad they did . They are happy with the policy they bought ; they are happy with the process they went through to get that policy ; and they are happy to tell all their friends and neighbors about how happy they are with the purchase :-RRB- . These are the qualities of a happy life insurance shopper : Quality number one : the happy life insurance shopper dares to care . Look , life insurance is not for you , right ? Its for your beneficiaries . And frankly , some people could care less about what happens after they die . I mean , to put it bluntly , they are dead , right ? Isnt that what it comes down to ? But for other people , the difference between being alive and being dead is not that great . I mean , you have spent a lifetime building something of value . Your marriage . Your family . Your business . Charitable causes worthy of your support . All these folks have become dependent on you . If you die , they could lose their economic foundation . But if you have insurance on your life , then they dont have to miss a dime . Life can go on in style for your spouse , your children , your business partners , your employees , and all the needy people that are being helped by the charities you support . If you care about these people , then life insurance can make sure life goes on for them , even when your life does not go on for you . Quality number two : the happy life insurance shopper understands that the time to buy is now . Everyone knows we all die sometime . For most of us , though , death is something that happens to someone else - until it strikes home . Maybe someone close to us gets really sick , or we ourselves have a brush with death that wakes us up . But up to that point , we just dont want to think about it . We also convince ourselves that if we stay in shape , eat right , manage our stress , and maintain a good attitude , we can forestall the inevitable . The fact of the matter is that if we really thought about it , there are a whole slew of hazards that are entirely beyond our control . Heres a few that come to mind : Freak household accidents . Violent crime . Natural disasters . Car crashes . Of course we all say that odds are against any of these happening to us . We even say to ourselves that we can afford to wait and buy a policy next year or the year after , so we can qualify for a better rate . But in the meantime , things can happen . And they do . All the time . Unexpectedly . If your time comes before you have a policy in force , then your beneficiaries lose out . You really cant afford to die until that coverage is in place . Quality number three : the happy life insurance shopper wants a guaranteed return on his or her money . OK . Now you know you need to get coverage in force as soon as possible because you never know when your time will come . The next logical question is : for how long do you keep the coverage in force ? Easy answer : for as long as you live . You know at some point you will have your last day on this earth , so that means you know for sure your beneficiary will get their money when your time comes ... ... as long as the policy is still in force . That means you need permanent coverage . The policy should last as long as you do . Doesnt permanent coverage cost more then term coverage ? Yes . Isnt term good for short-term needs ? Yes . Can you buy term and then purchase permanent when you can afford it ? Yes . Does it make sense to buy term now and then convert to a permanent product ? Yes . The thing is , if you dont take a long-term strategy , then you wont be guaranteed a payout . If you do take a long-term strategy , then you will . Guaranteed by a top-flight financial institution . Quality number four : the happy life insurance shopper knows what hes getting into . When you buy a house , do you expect to write a check for the purchase price agreed on ? Of course you do . Same when you buy a business , book a cruise , and buy a pair of shoes . We even demand that a grocery store clerk honors the price on the shelf if an item has been mislabeled . Life insurance should operate the same way . Hard to believe , isnt it ? All too often , a broker will submit an application on the hope and prayer that the applicant will be approved at the rate quoted . We wont know what the price really will be until you are approved . Yes , right , but if you go through full disclosure on a preliminary basis , you can become confident in what that price will be . The broker has to prequalify you and present carriers with thorough and accurate quote information upfront . They can then commit to a price , contingent upon information obtained in underwriting not contradicting the preliminary disclosures . You can then be sure of what you are buying . If you dont get prequalified , then you cant be sure . Simple as that . Quality number five : the happy life insurance shopper wants to be heard . There are a few companies out there who let consumers call them and buy policies . Thats nice for a tiny percentage of the zillions of men and women who need coverage . The rest of us need personalized service and a guide to walk us through the vast marketplace of potential carriers . Only one or two of them will be the best for us , and that broker has to lead the way to their doorstep . But life insurance distribution can be pretty rigid . The broker usually does not have direct access to the carriers . He or she must work through carrier general agencies who act as wholesalers of their products . So there is you , your broker , his or her general agent , and their carrier . I am sure you have played that telephone game where one person in the line passes down a message , and by the time it reaches the end , its completely different . Its the brokers job to make sure all information about you that is passed along the underwriting channels remains consistent and is fairly assessed . He or she is your advocate , and must be prepared to carry your cause over any and all hurdles that pop up in underwriting . And they do pop up . All the time . If you have been properly prequalified for coverage , then the bottom line is this : you should be approved at the rate quoted unless information arises in underwriting that is substantially different from the information that was disclosed on a preliminary basis . Your broker is your advocate to make sure that happens . In my humble opinion , this is how you buy life insurance . If you follow this path , you will be one happy camper :-RRB-
You ask if `` renters insurance cover break ins '' . I am going to assume you are asking : What happens if the apartment building burns down ? A thief broke into your apartment ? What if a guest slips and injures themselves in your kitchen ? What happens if the apartment suffers water damage ? What about all my clothing , furniture , televsions , computer , iPod , musical or sporting equipment , and my wife 's jewelry ? The answer is yes , Reneters insurance covers all the above . Smart investment .
Ideally planning for retirement should start as soon as we start working . Why ? Chances are we will make it to retirement and be there longer than we are in the traditional workforce . In short , the sooner you start saving the more you can take advantage of compound interest . A pilot has a checklist to be sure nothing is left out . I suggest you use one to help plan for your retirement , it will save you time and money . It is a shameless plug , but you will find one at www.RetirementPlanningCheckList.ca that you can use as a guide . Here is brief overview : First you need to decide , what a successful retirement means to you and then choose a retirement date as a focus point . Next determine , what it will cost to fund your retirement goals . Do a retirement budget , etc. . Once you determine the cost , how much you need to accumulate and need to save can be determined . Examine and co-ordinate the various sources of retirement income . Review your employee benefits to determine what you will need to supplement with personal plans . If you are self employed , you will need to address what is going to happen to , and with , your business . Succession planning needs to be addressed . Ensure your estate plan is up to date with what you want to happen after you are gone - will , beneficiaries for insurance and retirement account , etc. . Keep your spouse informed and be sure to have a Personal Record Organizer that provides the location of your important documents . Choose a financial planner to assist you . Take action , get started . If you have further questions , or feel that I could be of assistance , please do not hesitate to contact me . There is additional information on retirement planning and business succession planning on my website . www.jpw.ca
I am sorry to hear about your financial difficulties . Before surrendering your Whole Life Policy please consider that you will no longer have coverage and if you were to apply in the future the cost will be more than what you are locked into now . That said , you may have some options available to you . First , have you considered just withdrawing or taking a loan from the cash value ? This way the policy will still be in force . Be sure to understand what the surrender value is as well on the policy . It may mean you will get less out of the policy than what you were thinking . Please consider what will happen if death was to occur in the next 5 years , 10 years , etc. and what financial situation this may put you in . I would recommend contacting your Broker/agent to discuss your options . If you do not have one , I would be more than happy to look over what you have and make any recommendations based on what your needs are and what is available from the policy . This is a free service . Feel free to contact me at : mattb@denverwestip.info or call me at -LRB-720-RRB-708-5498 .
Really nothing happens when a life insurance policy lapses . That is to say the policy ends and there is no more insurance . There are a couple things that should happen = you should be notified that the policy is going to lapse and it should be explained how you can prevent that from happening . If the premiums are not paid up to keep the policy in force and it does lapse you should be notified of the provision to reinstate the policy and what steps to take and the time limit within which they must be taken .
end question
start question
health-insurance
Does A Health Insurance Blood Test Check For Smoking ?
I 'm not aware of any health insurance plans that require blood and/or urine tests to qualify for . That said , the information is usually available through past medical history and may be found in the MIB -LRB- Medical Information Bureau -RRB- or your current doctor 's chart notes . The risk for someone who is a smoker and omits that information , is a cancelled policy . Usually this would occur at the worst possible time , during the filing of a large claim . With smoking , some states do not apply the 2 year contestibility clause and consider a contract between the insurer and insured to never have existed , so premiums are refunded . While with health insurance you may not be tested for smoking , they reserve and you consent to the right for them to check your health history , so any doctor you 've told or any treatment you 've had the possibility would exist that there is a record of it .
With the passage of the Affordable Health Care Act insurance companies do little if any underwriting of health insurance policies . That being said , failure to answer a question honestly is always grounds for denial of a claim so honest is the best policy . Health insurance carriers rarely ask for medical tests as a part of any underwriting procedure .
Some tips to prepare for your paramed exam start a couple of days prior to your exam . First try to schedule your exam early in the morning . It is best if you can fast , no food or water 12 hours prior to your exam . If that is just too long , at least fast 8 hours minimum for your best blood and urine results . Get a good nights sleep prior . You will test better when well rested and early morning is when your blood pressure will be the lowest as well as your weight . It is not a drastic change but sometimes a point or a pound can drop you to the next tier of ratings which leads to lower premiums . Experts recommend not doing any vigorous exercise 48 hours prior to your exam . If you work out regularly , go light for the 2 days leading up . Exercise can increase proteins , which can lead to false positives on your blood work . If you smoke , try to refrain before your test , as it can elevate your blood pressure . If you smoke an occasional cigar or pipe , you need to be 14 days clean in order to get the cotine out of your blood stream . A few life insurance carriers will give you nontobacco rates for occasional use , but you must test nicotine and cotine free to receive these rates . Underwriters test for cotine because it stays in your system 14 days longer than nicotine .
Each life insurance company is likely to perform a blood test before issuing life insurance . Certainly for any amount over 100k . That blood test will detect nicotine in the system for the past several months . If you say you never smoked , the test will not go back that far , but other records will and they may check those . Lying to a carrier will result in termination for material fraud , although that may only go back two years from the application in most cases . Even vapor smokes now in use , are testable and show nicotine . Had a client have his rates increased due to smoking vapors . Be honest and find a company you can trust . Thank you . GARY LANE .
Medicare Part B-covered Diabetes Supplies : Blood sugar -LRB- also called blood glucose -RRB- self-testing equipment and supplies are covered as durable medical equipment for all people with Medicare Part B who have diabetes , even if you dont use insulin . Self-testing supplies include : Blood sugar monitors Blood sugar test strips Lancet devices and lancets Glucose control solutions for checking the accuracy of testing equipment and test strips . Medicare Part B covers the same type of blood sugar testing supplies for people with diabetes whether or not they use insulin . However , the amount of supplies that are covered varies . If you use insulin , you may be able to get up to 300 test strips and 300 lancets every 3 months . If you dont use insulin , you may be able to get 100 test strips and 100 lancets every 3 months . If your doctor says its medically necessary , Medicare will allow you to get additional test strips and lancets . Medically necessary means that services or supplies are needed for the diagnosis or treatment of your medical condition and meet accepted standards of medical practice . You may need to keep a record that shows how often youre actually testing yourself .
Yes , life insurance does test for the byproduct of nicotine , called cotinine , in the urine and/or blood that is tested for a life insurance exam . Cotinine is a more reliable indicator of actually smoking a cigarette than nicotine is , as sometimes nicotine tests can detect second hand smoke . With tobacco such as cigar or pipe , a very few companies will disregard cotinine in the blood or urine as long as it it disclosed on the application and there has been no cigarette usage in the past few years . Other than that , the insured person who tests positive for nicotine/cotinine will be rated as a Smoker .
Medicare Part A will cover blood tests done as an inpatient in a hospital or skilled nursing or rehab facility , and Part B will cover blood tests done as an outpatient in any setting , when the blood tests are ordered to diagnose or monitor a condition or disease . Medicare Part A and B does not ordinarily cover routine blood screening . However , some preventative screenings have recently been added to the blood tests that are covered under Medicare part B : diabetes screening for those who are high risk for diabetes , one blood test every 5 years to test cholesterol , HIV tests for those who are high risk or pregnant , and prostate cancer screening yearly . For specifics see this brochure : WEBSITELINK
Medicare covers a preventive screening visit when you 're new to Medicare and yearly `` wellness '' visits . A full annual physical exam would not be covered at 100 % . The new to Medicare preventive visit can be completed one time within the first year your Part B is active and includes a review of your medical history , discussion about preventive services -LRB- e.g. certain screenings , shots , etc. -RRB- , ht/wt measurement , blood pressure check , vision test , and a BMI index check . The yearly `` wellness '' visits can be completed once every 12 months if you 've had Part B for longer than a year . The purpose of the wellness visits is to develop and monitor a plan to help prevent disease and disability based on your health . Your would complete a health risk assessment with your doctor as well . Like the welcome to Medicare preventive visit , these visits include a review of your medical history , ht/wt check , and a blood pressure check . These test are only covered at 100 % if you 're doctor accepts Medicare and accepts assignment -LRB- accepting the Medicare-approved amount as payment in full -RRB- . Otherwise , you would be responsible for a portion of the costs -LRB- typically 20 % coinsurance -RRB- and the Part B deductible may apply -LRB- $ 147 in 2014 -RRB- . You can also be subject to paying for other services that are conducted during the visit if they are not covered as part of the preventive visit benefits -LRB- e.g. blood tests , urine tests , ekg , etc. -RRB- . Typically , original Medicare -LRB- Parts A & B -RRB- only covers about 80 % of a senior 's health care expenses , leaving the insured responsible for the other 20 % . You may want to look at supplementing your coverage with a Medigap plan -LRB- also known as a Medicare supplement plan -RRB- to cover the gaps in coverage that Medicare does n't pay for -LRB- e.g. that other 20 % -RRB- . You pay a monthly premium to get these gaps covered so you 're not hit with large bills . The resulting major advantage is it allows a senior to create a much , much more predictable health care expense structure - and when you 're on a fixed income , this is vital . Please feel free to contact me if I can be of more assistance . Thanks very much .
Yes , indeed they do . And the test is pretty reliable . Want to hear an interesting story ? A number of years ago I took an application from a client who disclosed that he did smoke cigarettes on a daily basis . So I quoted him smoker rates . He provided the lab specimens for the insurance exam and we all assumed they would show he was indeed a smoker . When the results came back , he had tested negative for nicotine even though he smoked every day ! Our assumption was he had a huge tolerance and it just didnt register in the lab . So , fair being fair , the underwriter gave him non-smoker rates ! And he paid about half as much as he would have as a smoker . Of course , smokers cant count on that always happening . They should expect to pay smoker rates . And most smokers hate paying that extra premium for that extra mortality risk . -LRB- And by the way - there is a huge amount of data to show that smoking does increase your mortality risk . Sorry . -RRB- So what should a smoker do ? Lie on the application ? I mean , who is really going to know if you say you dont smoke , and just go without cigarettes for a few weeks ? Your lab specimen should then come out clean , right ? Bad idea . Not good . Dont do it . That is insurance fraud , you know . You could jeopardize the claim getting paid . Besides which , this is not a game . Life insurance pricing has to accurately reflect the risk obligations taken on . If everybody scammed the system to get undercharged , then odds are the insurance carriers wouldnt have enough money to pay out benefit . Then everybodys beneficiaries would lose out . Not only that : there is something to be said for acting honorably , dont you think ? Your word should be your bond . What about postponing the purchase of the policy and waiting a year or two , so you can quit in the meantime and then qualify for non-smoker rates ? Well , okay , but who says youll be insurable at that point ? What if you come down with high blood pressure , high cholesterol , or high blood sugar , or any number of things that could throw the rates off ? Or even worse , make you ineligible for coverage at all ? Delaying is not worth the risk . Best thing to do is buy the policy now for the best smoker rates available . Keep it in force . Then , stop smoking . If you qualify for non-smoker rates , go for it . If you are eligible for a better rate , then good for you . But if you are not , then at least you have coverage . Either way , your beneficiaries will get what they need . Good move .
Here is the list that I keep on file for my clients : >> Fast for a minimum of 8 Hours Prior to Exam unless you are diabetic or have another health condition . If you do have a health condition we will discuss specific instructions for your case . >> Insist on Morning appointments only ! Blood pressure and exam results tend to be better in the morning . Many examiners are available on Saturdays as well . >> If you are sick on the day of your exam , cancel . We can always reschedule the exam when you are better . >> Take your medications as you normally would . >> Avoid alcohol for a minimum of 24 hours prior to your exam . Blood pressure , liver enzymes and more may be elevated otherwise . >> If you smoke , do not smoke prior to your exam . Smoking raises blood pressure . For cigar smokers and other tobacco users Some of the companies will give you a non-smoker rate but your urine sample needs to be negative for nicotine . Please call to discuss your case >> Your weight Check your weight in the days leading up to your exam . On the day of your exam , take your shoes off , dont wear belts , empty your pockets , wear light clothing . IMORTANT Make sure you ask the examiner what your weight is . If you think it is wrong , ask them to weigh you again . >> Your height Stand up straight just like Mom told you to . IMPORTANT Ask the examiner what your height is . If you think it is wrong , ask them to check again . >> Avoid Caffeine on Exam day Caffeine elevates your blood pressure . Avoid it for at least a few hours prior to exam . >> Cholesterol TIP Eat plenty of oatmeal and bananas in the week leading up to your exam and lay off the sweets and other cholesterol elevating foods . >> Exercise TIP If you exercise , do NOT exercise on the morning of your exam . Exercise may artificially raise your blood pressure . >> Water Drink lots of water to flush out your system leading up to the exam .
If you are applying for a policy that requires an exam , the life insurance company will check for smoking through a urine test and blood test . The byproduct of nicotine , called cotinine , shows up in those tests . Even if you are applying for a No Exam policy , the insurance company will look on your MIB to see if you have ever been rated a smoker when applying for insurance in the past . And you will be asked on the application whether you have used tobacco in the past year or longer . If you are currently smoking and say you are a nonsmoker , the policy could refuse to pay the claim if you passed within the first two years of obtaining the life insurance policy .
I 'm not aware of any health insurance plans that require blood and/or urine tests to qualify for . That said , the information is usually available through past medical history and may be found in the MIB -LRB- Medical Information Bureau -RRB- or your current doctor 's chart notes . The risk for someone who is a smoker and omits that information , is a cancelled policy . Usually this would occur at the worst possible time , during the filing of a large claim . With smoking , some states do not apply the 2 year contestibility clause and consider a contract between the insurer and insured to never have existed , so premiums are refunded . While with health insurance you may not be tested for smoking , they reserve and you consent to the right for them to check your health history , so any doctor you 've told or any treatment you 've had the possibility would exist that there is a record of it .
Life insurance companies are not mind readers , but they do their very best to find out if you smoke . If you have a blood test , urine test , or swab , the presence of nicotine will show up in all those tests . If you have ever taken Chantix or other drugs to help you quit smoking , they will see that on your pharmacy record . If your medical records show that you smoke and you have a health condition that causes underwriters to order your medical records , the insurance company will take the word of what is written in your medical records .
It is possible to hide your smoking from the insurance company . Chances are the underwriter is not going to poll your neighbors to find out if they 've seen you smoking . However , when you apply for your policy the company will require you to give a blood and urine test . Most of the time they are checking for cotinine with is a metabolite of nicotine . Lying about your smoking on a life insurance application is a material misrepresentation . Life insurance companies can challenge paying claims in cases of fraud . Some courts have determined that lying about smoking usage to get a lower rate is fraud .
A life insurance urine test along with a blood test with larger policies are checking for two categories . The first series is looking for drugs , both illegal and prescription to test against medical records for abuse . Underwriting will test for nicotine and cotine , which stays in the system longer than just nicotine for tobacco use . The second set of tests are used to check for diseases like cancer , diabetes , heart disease , blood disorders , kidney disease , etc. . These results are usually compared to the individuals medical records for their risk assessment .
Tobacco in the blood is indicated by a metabolite of nicotine called cotinine . Cotinine can be detected in a life insurance blood test for several weeks after smoking a cigarette , chewing nicotine gum , using chewing tobacco , etc. . The test for cotinine is also sensitive enough that it nearly always detects actual tobacco use , rather than second hand smoke .
Cotinine is a metabolite of nicotine that is found in blood and urine of tobacco users . Life Insurance companies test for smoking by checking for the presence of cotinine in blood and urine samples taken at the paramed exam . They will back up these tests with questions on the application , phone interview -LRB- if one is conducted -RRB- and medical records -LRB- if an APS is ordered -RRB- .
It is amazing how a life insurance company can find out you smoke . They test urine and blood for cotinine/nicotine , if you take an exam . They usually do a phone interview if you do n't take an exam , so you have to state your smoking status both in writing and verbally . They may order medical records . I once had a client who turned out to be rated a smoker , and when I asked him about it , he said he did n't think there was any way the insurance company would find out because he did n't smoke for a month before the exam and even his doctor did not know he was a smoker . It turned out his wife had told his doctor he smoked ! He may have been able to contest that by taking a new exam , but he , of course , was back to smoking by then . If you smoke , just admit it . If you quit smoking later , you can apply for a rate reduction a year after smoking .
The exact tests that are required for an exam a person will take will depend on several factors - their age , the amount of coverage they 're applying for , and the carrier they 're applying to . Each carrier has their own underwriting guidelines so some may have different exam requirements than others . For middle aged individuals , you will most commonly see an exam consist of 3 parts : 1 -RRB- Paramedical exam - checking your height/weight , your pulse , and going through the medical questions 2 -RRB- Blood Test 3 -RRB- Urine Test The urine test is the primary method for testing for drugs . Markers in the blood can also show evidence of drug use . One recommendation is know which carrier and which of their programs you are going to apply for . You do n't want to take an exam before completing the application process because if you apply to another carrier than you may have originally intended , you may have to complete extra testing because that 2nd carrier may have more markers they check for -LRB- therefore extra exam requirements/tests -RRB- than the other carrier . Ideally , you want to have everything in order and make sure it 's right so you only have to do it once . I hope the information is helpful - please feel free to contact me for help and if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
Life insurance companies do test for THC , the chemical in the blood that is deposited after smoking or ingesting pot . If they find THC in the blood , they will ask you to fill out a drug questionnaire , and from there decide how to rate you . With some companies , infrequent marijuana use does not affect your rates much at all . If you are taking a policy that does not require an exam -LRB- called nonmed or no exam policies -RRB- they will not test for pot . They do usually ask about drug use on the application .
end question
start question
disability-insurance
What Can The Average Person Expect To Pay For Disability Insurance ?
Who is the average person and how much of their compensation does average person want to protect ? Long term disability insurance is paycheck insurance . First determine if your tax bracket warrants deducting the disability insurance premium as a legitimate business . If the answer is yes , apply for 80 % of your compensation . Keep in mind that the benefits will be taxable as ordinary income . If the answer is no , apply for 60 % of your compensation , your benefits will be tax free . Whats the cost ? Whats your gender , age , smoking status , health history , current medical condition ? Whats the amount you want to cover ? How long do you want coverage to last ? What elimination period do you require based on your current cash reserves ? It is possible that you may pay between 3-5 % of the compensation youre attempting to indemnify .
A quote , in short , is an estimation of premium you can expect to pay for your life insurance policy - the premiums can be paid annually , semi-annually , quarterly , or monthly . Please note , a quote is only as good as the information it 's based on . There are 4 main factors that determine the premium for the coverage - your age , the amount of coverage you 're trying to secure , how long you want it guaranteed for , and your risk classification . The risk classification is the MOST important factor in determining how much you can expect to/will pay for your coverage . If the medical history is not factored into the quote -LRB- e.g. you 're only running numbers based on someone 's date of birth and/or height/weight -RRB- , any quotes provided are pretty much meaningless because they do not provide an accurate representation of what you can expect to be approved at . To provide a little background on risk classes : every life insurance company has different underwriting guidelines that determine what risk class an individual qualifies for . Since every company has different guidelines for qualification , one might offer a better risk class than another based on the aforementioned information , resulting in a lower premium for the same coverage . The different risk classes someone can be assigned by a carrier are : Preferred Plus -LRB- sometimes seen as Preferred Elite -RRB- this means the proposed insured is typically in superior health , normal height/weight profile , no chronic illnesses , lab results within normal range , no immediate family members died from heart disease or cancer before age 60 . Preferred this means the proposed insured is in excellent health . Height/weight may be a little over the most preferred range , treatment for high blood pressure or high cholesterol usually acceptable , lab results normal or slightly abnormal . Standard Plus - this means the proposed insured 's health is better than the average . Height/weight may be higher than normal . Standard - this means the proposed insured is in average health and has a normal life expectancy . Height/weight may be on the high side , possible treatment for several minor conditions , one or more parents died from heart disease/cancer before age 60 , slightly elevated lab results -LRB- such as higher than normal blood pressure or cholesterol -RRB- . Substandard - this means the proposed insured has a below average life expectancy -LRB- commonly seen as high risk life insurance -RRB- . Height/weight may be considered obese , treatment for chronic illnesses or major health conditions -LRB- such as prior heart attack , cancer , diabetes -RRB- , abnormal lab results . Substandard ratings are expressed as a table rating , usually designated as Tables A-J or 1-10 . Each additional table increase is usually a 25 % increase over the standard risk class rates . Tobacco user risk classes are preferred smoker , standard smoker , and substandard smoker . There is no preferred plus or standard plus risk classification for tobacco users . It 's best to consult with an experienced life insurance broker who can shop your case among multiple carriers to see who will offer you the most favorable risk classification for your program . Please feel free to contact me for help or if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
A quote , in short , is an estimation of premium you can expect to pay for your life insurance policy - the premiums can be paid annually , semi-annually , quarterly , or monthly . Please note , a quote is only as good as the information it 's based on . There are 4 main factors that determine the premium for the coverage - your age , the amount of coverage you 're trying to secure , how long you want it guaranteed for , and your risk classification . The risk classification is the MOST important factor in determining how much you can expect to/will pay for your coverage . If the medical history is not factored into the quote -LRB- e.g. you 're only running numbers based on someone 's date of birth and/or height/weight -RRB- , any quotes provided are pretty much meaningless because they do not provide an accurate representation of what you can expect to be approved at . To provide a little background on risk classes : every life insurance company has different underwriting guidelines that determine what risk class an individual qualifies for . The company will look at your personal medical history , smoker status , height/weight profile , results of the medical exam -LRB- if applying for a policy requiring it - no exam policies typically cost more -RRB- , your family medical history -LRB- e.g. cancer or heart disease before age 60 in the immediate family -RRB- , motor vehicle record , and any hazardous activities you may participate in -LRB- such as aviation , scuba diving , drag racing , etc -RRB- . Since every company has different guidelines for qualification , one might offer a better risk class than another based on the aforementioned information , resulting in a lower premium for the same coverage . The different risk classes someone can be assigned by a carrier are : Preferred Plus -LRB- sometimes seen as Preferred Elite -RRB- this means the proposed insured is typically in superior health , normal height/weight profile , no chronic illnesses , lab results within normal range , no immediate family members died from heart disease or cancer before age 60 . Preferred this means the proposed insured is in excellent health . Height/weight may be a little over the most preferred range , treatment for high blood pressure or high cholesterol usually acceptable , lab results normal or slightly abnormal . Standard Plus - this means the proposed insured 's health is better than the average . Height/weight may be higher than normal . Standard - this means the proposed insured is in average health and has a normal life expectancy . Height/weight may be on the high side , possible treatment for several minor conditions , one or more parents died from heart disease/cancer before age 60 , slightly elevated lab results -LRB- such as higher than normal blood pressure or cholesterol -RRB- . Substandard - this means the proposed insured has a below average life expectancy -LRB- commonly seen as high risk life insurance -RRB- . Height/weight may be considered obese , treatment for chronic illnesses or major health conditions -LRB- such as prior heart attack , cancer , diabetes -RRB- , abnormal lab results . Substandard ratings are expressed as a table rating , usually designated as Tables A-J or 1-10 . Each additional table increase is usually a 25 % increase over the standard risk class rates . Tobacco user risk classes are preferred smoker , standard smoker , and substandard smoker . There is no preferred plus or standard plus risk classification for tobacco users . It 's best to consult with an experienced life insurance broker who can shop your case among multiple carriers to see who will offer you the most favorable risk classification for your program . Please feel free to contact me for help or if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
An Average person driving an average car living in an average neighborhood with an average driving record who wants average coverage 's and drives an average amount of miles and holds an average job with an average wife and average kids and an average income would surely pay an average price . However as an agent to be a little more specific I would need the answers to what is average .
On average , women have a longer life expectancy . The longer one is expected to live , the less the life insurance rate will be based on a level premium paid for life . Insurance companies start with average rates based on gender , age and tobacco use and then underwrite individually to come up with a price based on those rates which may be better than average -LRB- preferred -RRB- or below average -LRB- substandard or rated -RRB- .
Based on data compiled for health insurance plans in 2014 with the new mandated coverage under the Affordable Care Act , the weighted average of a benchmark -LRB- silver , or 70 % benefit level -RRB- health insurance plan in Kansas is $ 260 ; which is below the $ 328 national weighted average . As for current Kansas averages , the 2013 data is not accurately completed and compiled yet . But by best estimates of 2013 data , the average premium in Kansas is $ 182 , but does not disclose or reflect benefit levels or type of coverage -LRB- the national average benefit level is 78 % -RRB- . So , in conclusion , a resident of Kansas can expect to pay on average $ 182 for a health plan the remainder of 2013 , and then $ 260 starting 2014 -LRB- a 43 % increase from 2013 , which is in line with the national weighted average of overall premium increases -RRB- . But , premiums vary widely across the state and by county , and by age .
Yes , disability insurance is really paycheck insurance and protects your income stream in the event an accident or illness prevents you from working . There are two type of disability insurance ; Short Term & Long Term disability . Short term plans usually cover periods of 13 or 26 weeks . Long Term plans , as their name implies , run for longer terms that can go on for years depending upon the policy . It is estimated that a 20 year old has a 25 % chance of being disabled for some period of time before they reach retirement age . Currently 12 % of the U.S. population is disabled with only 5 % of those disabilities being work related . So , a health problem or off the job accident is the most likely cause of someone becoming disabled . A recent report shows the average Social Security Disability payment is $ 1065 per month and qualifying for Social Security disability is famous for being difficult and time consuming with waits of 2 years for approval not being uncommon and as of 2009 , only 30 % of Social Security disability claims were approved . Relying on Social Security alone to preserve your lifestyle in the event of a disability is unwise . The majority of persons who experience a disabling event can return to work within about 90-days . But , for persons who experience a disability exceeding 90-days the average length of these types of disabling events is 3.2 years ! Ideally , a person will have both short term and long term disability insurance protection . Short term disability insurance will be less expensive and if your budget does n't allow for both coverages I would suggest starting out with short term coverage for the longest coverage period possible . If you are a female I would also recommend that you verify how a prospective short term disability policy treats maternity . Some policies treat maternity as a disabling event while others do not . This can be an important difference for a woman in her child bearing years .
To see what average Term Life Insurance rates are for someone your age , go to a quote engine on a website that offers instant quotes -LRB- as mine does -RRB- . Look at the Standard rates . Those are what someone with an average life expectancy would pay for life insurance . Of course , the average rate for any one person depends not just on age , but also their health , whether they smoke , gender , and other things . Those factors can cause one 's premium to be much higher or lower than Standard .
The average cost of long-term care insurance depends on a number of factors as the policies are very customizable . If you 're looking for a more basic option , I would estimate a range of around $ 1,800 - $ 2,300 per year in premiums . If you want something more comprehensive , you 're probably looking at something more so in the range of $ 4,000 - $ 6,000 per year . The most comprehensive plans can be $ 7,000 or more per year . Factors such as the person 's age , health , only applying as an individual , applying as a married couple , daily benefit levels , benefit periods , compound inflation options , elimination/waiting periods , and other items will really impact what the cost for a plan will be . In today 's world , there 's a very good chance you will need long-term care at some point in your life . If you were paying for long-term care out of pocket , you can expect to be writing a check for at least $ 40,000 per year - something more specialized like a nursing home , then possibly well over $ 100,000 per year . Unfortunately , not too many people can write that check . While writing a check for several thousand dollars a year in premiums for long-term care coverage can have a bit of sticker shock , it can potentially save you 10 's of thousands of dollars in the future if it happens to you . So the idea of the coverage is to transfer the risk to the insurance company in exchange for a small premium and use their money rather than your own to pay for the expenses if that care is ever needed . The long and short being that the `` average cost '' is an irrelevant figure . It only gives you an idea . The actual cost you can expect to pay depends on your needs and what you want to accomplish with the coverage . From there you can start to compare numbers . I would suggest speaking with an independent insurance agent who works with long-term care insurance products and can compare multiple companies for you . An agent can help you sort through all the zigs and zags of long-term care insurance and help determine what coverage will best serve your needs . If you need help with your coverage , please feel free to call or e-mail me via the contact me button - I have an agent in my group with a strong background in long-term care insurance . I hope the information is helpful - please let me know if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
You should only be dealing with group underwriting if your group has more than 50 employees or you are considering a self-funded group health plan . The employees in your group will have to complete an application form and answer a variety of medical questions regarding various health conditions and prescription drug usage . These forms are then submitted for underwriting where an underwriter takes into consideration what health conditions exist in the group -LRB- diabetes , cancer , pregnancies , expensive maintenance drugs , etc. -RRB- and then makes a determination if the originally quoted rates for your group will generate enough premium to cover the average expected risk plus the now disclosed risks in your group . For example , if based on the census of your group the male to female ratio and average age in the group indicated a need for $ 20,000 per month in premium to cover the expected risk and overhead associated with your group you would start out with an proposal costing $ 240,000 annually . It is assumed there will be a certain average amount of health care consumption in your group based solely on the factors I 've described above . If , however , your group has risks in it that go beyond what is standardly assumed should exist -LRB- you have a large number of diabetics or some pregnancies in the pipleline or an ongoing cancer case for examples -RRB- then the underwriter will `` adjust '' the originally quoted rates to reflect the need for more premium to cover these higher than anticipated medical expenses . So , if the underwriter determines that your group is more likely to cost $ 300,000 in medical expenses and overhead rather than $ 220,000 as originally quoted , the underwriter will return a `` counter offer '' with a 36 % rate adjustment -LRB- $ 300K / $ 220K -RRB- to accept your group at its real risk level .
Life insurance rates are based on a complicated set of actuarial tables based on mortality . To simplify it , they look at the statistics of how long the average person is expected to live if they are a non-smoker . They also look at gender . There is a mortality table that all insurance companies use . They will use that table to determine rates for the average person -LRB- standard rates -RRB- . They then look at health factors to determine preferred rates for the very healthy and various rate tables as a persons health factors decline and accumulate until a person is no longer considered insurable by a standard policy .
Certainly long term disability insurance is risk management tool that every responsible person needs to seriously consider . The average working age American has about a 25 % chance of being disabled for some portion of their life . So , 75 % of us avoid disability if you look on the bright side but a 1 out of 4 chance that you 'll be the unlucky person is pretty sobering . Your chances of being disabled for some period are far higher than your odds of winning the Powerball Lottery . And , if you do experience a disability close to 40 % of those unlucky persons experience a disability period in excess of 5 years with the average disability lasting 82 months from recent figures I saw . The challenge , as with so many things in life , is effectively managing all the risks that life presents us with . Health care , dental care , vision care , the risk of death , oh and somewhere in there you 've got to eat and have shelter and live a life . I ca n't say that long term disability insurance should be your number one priority over eating but it 's certainly more important than having a set of spinners on your car or having the ultimate man cave . Disability insurance should be high on your list of risks to manage and the younger in life you make the commitment the more economical it will be .
Any person who is dependent on an income needs disability insurance . DI protects your income in case you can no longer work due to a sickness or injury . It allows you to stay financially afloat by covering whatever you need , from bills , your mortgage , co-pays , etc. . The average person only has 90 days of cash reserves , yet the average long term disability claim is 31.2 months ... a lot more than what the average person has on hand !
The average cost of life insurance varies so much that it is impossible to state a meaningful figure . What is average for a 20 year old male is a far cry of what is average for an 80 year old male . Those two persons generally do n't even need the same face amounts or purchase the same type of policies . To find the average cost of Term Life Insurance for a relatively healthy person , you can use quote engines on websites that will show that . Better yet is to call the website or a local agency , and discuss your health and the type of policy you want . If they have several companies that will cover you with the same type of policy , that is a good way to see an average price of what life insurance would cost for you .
Most people dont enjoy paying their auto insurance premiums each and every month ! So , they often look forward to scheduled rate decreases , such as at the age of 25 . Why do car insurance rates decrease at this age ? Well , because the majority of crash claims are filed by young -LRB- ages 16 through 24 -RRB- and older drivers . As a driver matures , they become less likely to become involved in a crash according to statistics , so to offer an incentive for drivers to stay with a particular insurance company , discounts are often offered at the age of 25 . While it is generally true that auto insurance rates will decrease at the age of 25 , it isnt always the case . Drivers can expect their car insurance rates to decline at the age of 25 assuming the following remain constant - their driving history , incident history , and the make and model of their car . If all of these factors remain the same , male drivers can expect a premium discount as high as 20 % , while female drivers can expect a 12-15 % discount on their rate . Keep in mind that the above discount ranges are averages ; there isnt currently a standard amount of deduction that can be expected ; rate decreases will depend not only on the drivers history , but the insurance company , the type of coverage selected and the overall state of the economy .
Imagine that there are 100 people your age wanting $ 100,000 of life insurance . The company actuary determines that in the coming 12 months on average 1 of you will die . So the base premium for a policy would be $ 100,000 / 100 = $ 1000 . The underwriter then looks at the medical information on all 100 applicants and determines who is close enough to the average to be considered `` standard . Some of the applicants will not be acceptable at all , while others will be is such great shape as to be considered preferred plus . When you get a quote you will probably get either a standard or preferred quote . If you fall into that category you can expect the premium to be the same when the policy is issued , if you dont you can expect the premium to be either higher or lower . As I mentioned before someone might not be insured at all .
Like any other product or service `` expensive or cheap '' is subject . Is disability insurance worth it ? Absolutely , if you were injured or ill and unable to earn an income , it will be the best investment of your life . As far as cost , it depends on some many different factors it is impossible to quote without knowing more about a person 's situation . The average person can expect to pay 1 % to 3 % of their annual income in disability premiums in order to protect their earnings from an unthinkable disability situation .
The most recent figures for late March , 2014 indicate that the average cost of an individual major medical health insurance policy in the United States is $ 328 per month . That said , your results can and almost certainly will vary . A national average figure is not likely to be reflective of what the cost would be for you in the specific area of the state that you are a resident in . Also , this average figure does not take into account any possible advanced premium tax subsidy a person might qualify for , which would reduce that person 's net cost of insurance . Individual health insurance rates can vary wildly from one state to another and can vary significantly within the various regions that each state is subdivided into under the structure imposed by the Affordable Care Act . And the reported national average price becomes an even more unreliable yardstick because it also averages in a wide range of levels of insurance coverage . As an analogy , you can get an average cost for a new car purchase in the U.S. but that may bear little resemblance to the price of the specific car you want to buy .
This can be complicated but I will try to keep it simple . If you have a Whole Life Policy , the premium is based on how long you are expected to live , averaged out over that length of time the policy is expected to be in force . Term Insurance seems cheaper because it is not designed to cover you for your whole life . That is why the cheapest form of life insurance is one year term . Every time a term policy renews the premium goes up until it eventually becomes unaffordable . Because a whole life policy averages these premiums out , you are paying more in the early years than term but in the later years you premium would be less than term , since the policy does not need to renew . The excess money collected in the early years is invested and after expenses the balance is put into the cash value . They use a lot of complicated formulas to determine this but this is a simplified explanation .
If you think you might qualify for Medicare due to a disability , you should first file for disability benefits through the Social Security Administration . If approved , you may be able to get Medicare prior to age 65 due to a disability . In order to qualify for Medicare due to a disability , you must meet the criteria defined by the Social Security Administration : `` Social Security pays only for total disability . No benefits are payable for partial disability or for short-term disability . `` Disability '' under Social Security is based on your inability to work . We consider you disabled under Social Security rules if : You can not do work that you did before ; We decide that you can not adjust to other work because of your medical condition -LRB- s -RRB- ; and Your disability has lasted or is expected to last for at least one year or to result in death '' . You can apply for benefits through Medicare because of a disability online at : WEBSITELINK if you are tech savvy . If you choose not to apply online , you can apply at any local Social Security Administration office by phone or in person and you can call ahead to make an appointment by calling 1-800-772-1213 . If you are deaf or hearing impaired , call the SSA 's toll-free TTY number , 1-800-325-0778 . Their representatives are available from 7AM to 7PM , Monday through Friday . It is important to note that this definition of disability `` is different than other programs '' and `` is a strict definition of disability '' according to the Social Security Administration . There are many , more comprehensive disability policies available which allow benefits to be paid for a partial disability , for example , or pay benefits to help with various expenses such as paying your mortgage in the event that you suffer a disability . In addition , these policies can be purchased for key people in a business such as a business partner or profitable executive . For questions regarding which disability policy may be best for you or how much coverage you may need , it is best to speak with an Insurance Professional . They are highly trained in the business of Insurance , and will complete a full analysis of your needs and make recommendations based on what 's in your best interest . An Insurance Professional is a great resource for any other programs and products that may be of benefit to you including state and federal resources that you may qualify for based on your unique situation such as applying for Disability through the Social Security Administration . There is a reason they are so highly trained and regulated ! Resources : www.ssa.gov
end question
start question
medicare-insurance
What Companies Offer Medigap Policies ?
Many insurance companies offer Medigap policies including Aetna , UnitedHealthcare , Blue Cross and Humana . Depending on your state , there will be dozens of carriers that offer affordable options . Perhaps the most difficult choice , however , is not necessarily choosing the company , but actually selecting the specific Medigap plan that is best to purchase . An experienced licensed broker and their website can help you find and compare the best options and select the policy that is most suitable for you . With more than 32 years of experience in the business , I have found that picking the best Medigap plan is one of the biggest financial challenges for consumers that have retired , or are nearing retirement .
Many of the `` big name '' companies offer Medigap policies . You can find plans from all of the Blue Cross plans , Aetna , Humana , Mutual of Omaha and others . But do n't discount the smaller carriers that may be lesser known . All Medicare supplement policies with the same letter are identical in every way ... except price .
Several of the big insurance company names offer Medigap Policies such as Mutual of Omaha , Transamerica , Humana , AARP & United Healthcare to name just a few . It can take a lot of time to research all the companies to figure out who has the best plan at the best premium in your area . A great way to save time would be to work with an independent agent that specializes in Medigap Policies . They will be able to show you all the plans available to you in your area & help you determine which Medigap Plan is the right fit for your needs . You will not pay anything for our service .
There are many companies that offer Medigap policies including AARP -LRB- insured through United Healthcare -RRB- , United of Omaha -LRB- now Omaha Insurance Company -RRB- , Anthem , Humana , CareFirst , Cigna , Aetna -LRB- via American Continental or Continental Life in some areas -RRB- , Medico , Central States Indemnity -LRB- CSI -RRB- , and New Era Life , just to name a few . Which carrier you have your Medigap policy through is not the most critical item as every carrier has to pay the benefits the same way - Medigap plans are standardized meaning a plan F from company ABC is exactly the same as a plan F from company XYZ . The price of the Medigap plan and the premium rating method the carrier uses are the two biggest factors to consider . I hope the information is helpful - please feel free to contact me for assistance with your Medigap coverage and if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
In addition to what Jason stated , I 'd also like to point out that not all insurance companies offer Medigap Select plans . In fact , the insurance companies that offer Medigap Select Plans often are the major companies advertising online . Their premiums are usually high and to make the Medigap Plan more ` affordable ' , they offer the Medigap Select . One of the great benefits of having a Medigap Plan is your freedom to choose any Medicare provider without the boundaries of a network . Getting a Medigap Select Plan will limit your freedom . While you may be happy with your local in-network hospital , if you want to see a cardiologist in a neighboring state , you 'll be out of luck on a Select Plan . There are dozens of insurance companies that offer Medigap Plans at affordable prices . I 've never had to offer my clients a Medigap Select Plan F , G or N because I 've always found them an affordable Medigap Policy by taking the time to shop the Medicare Supplement market .
There are many companies that offer Medigap plans , but not every company offers every plan and in every state . Most insurance companies have a handful of states they do business in for their Medigap plans and only sell several of the available plans -LRB- e.g. company XYZ only sells Medigap plans A , F , G , and N -RRB- . Since Medigap plans are standardized -LRB- meaning the coverage is the same , regardless of the company it 's through - the only difference being the price of the coverage -RRB- , it 's important to find out all of the carriers that offer plans in your zip code . Some of the big name companies in the Medigap marketplace include , but are not limited to , United Healthcare -LRB- parternered with AARP to use their name on their Medigap plans -RRB- , Omaha , WellPoint -LRB- Anthem and other Blue Cross carriers -RRB- , Aetna , Cigna , Humana , Central States Indemnity , Medico , New Era , Royal Neighbors of America , United American , and Equitable , to name a few - there are a number of other companies out there in the Medigap marketplace . I hope the information is helpful - please feel free to contact me for assistance with your Medigap coverage needs , including quotes and plan comparisons , and if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
My Blue Medigap is Medicare Supplement insurance through Blue Cross Blue Shield of Michigan . My Blue Medigap offers three Medigap Plans -LRB- A , F , N -RRB- through Blue Care Network . Medigap Plans A , F , N are standardized . The Medigap benefits from one company are the same exact Medigap benefits with another company -- the only difference is price . My Blue Medigap will have a different monthly premiums than other private insurance companies offering Medigap Plans A , F , N. It 's worth contacting an independent agent specializing in Medicare Supplement insurance . We can provide quotes in just a matter of minutes from companies you wo n't see online . We 'll do a side by side comparison showing you which company has the best Medigap price . Please let me know if I can be of further assistance with your specific situation .
The best way to compare prices on Medigap policies is to speak with an independent Medigap insurance broker . Independent brokers can sell Medigap policies from just about every company that offers Medigap plans . Since all Medigap plans are standardized and the only difference is price , you can compare plan F 's from every company that offers it in your zip code to see which carrier will offer you the coverage at the lowest possible cost -LRB- same goes for comparing plan G 's , N 's , etc. -RRB- . I would also compare the prices of plan Fs and plan Gs because the benefits are identical except plan G has a deductible of $ 147 -LRB- the Medicare Part B deductible in 2014 and 2015 -RRB- . If the difference in price is more than $ 12.25 per month , plan G would be a better deal for you . If the difference in price is less than $ 12.25 per month , then plan F would be a better deal for you . I would be happy to help you with your Medigap coverage and compare Medigap plans and quotes from every company offering them to you in your area - our agency is licensed in over 35 states and over 50 insurance companies . Please feel free to contact me for assistance . Thanks very much .
In a way , yes . What 's actually occurring is you 're leaving Medicare Advantage to go back to Original Medicare -LRB- Parts A & B -RRB- and adding a Medigap plan to that to cover the 20 % of expenses that Original Medicare does not . During the annual enrollment period -LRB- AEP - October 15-December 7 -RRB- , you would apply for a Medigap plan noting to the carrier your intent to disenroll from the Medicare Advantage plan -LRB- you ca n't have both unfortunately -RRB- . The effective date for the coverage would be set up as January 1 of the following year because your Medicare Advantage plan is set up as a one-year contract providing coverage from January 1-December 31 for the year you enrolled for . If it 's your first year in a Medicare Advantage plan and you want to go back to Original Medicare , you will have a guaranteed-issue right -LRB- via a `` trial right '' when it 's your first time in an MA plan -RRB- to secure any Medigap plan and can not be declined for any medical reasons . Another `` guaranteed-issue '' / `` trial right '' situation is if you dropped a Medigap plan to go to Medicare Advantage -LRB- for the first time and you 've been in the plan for less than one year -RRB- and want to go back to Medigap , you can secure the Medigap policy you had before you joined the Medicare Advantage Plan , if the same insurance company you had before still offers it . If your prior carrier your former Medigap policy was through no longer offers that same plan , you can buy either a plan A , B , C , F , K , or L from any insurance company offering coverage in your area . For either `` trial right '' scenarios , it can be done at any point during the year -LRB- not just during AEP -RRB- as early as 60 days before the date your Medicare Advantage coverage will terminate and no later than 63 days after it ends . It 's best to speak with an independent broker who can shop the case for you among many carriers to make sure you 're getting the desired Medigap plan at the lowest possible cost since they 're standardized -LRB- the coverage is the same for a given Medigap plan regardless of who it 's through - the only difference being price -RRB- . Captive agents can only offer plans from the carrier work they work for . I hope the information is helpful - please feel free to contact me for help with your Medicare insurance coverage , including plan quotes and comparisons for Medigap plans , and if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
Medigap or Medicare Supplement insurance coverage is offered by private insurance companies . All Medigap Plans are standardized , so the benefits with Plan F from ABC insurance company are the same exact benefits with XYZ insurance company . The only difference is the price . Often times , Seniors are only aware of a few insurance companies that offer Medigap Plans . This is because of their heavy marketing techniques . In reality , there are many more insurance companies available and probably most of them you 've never heard of -- but since Medigap Plan benefits are standardized by CMS , it does n't matter what the name of the insurance company is . An independent agent specializing in Medicare Supplement insurance can share which insurance companies are in your area and which ones have the best price . Thank you for reading my response . Please let me know if I can help you find Medigap coverage in your area .
Yes ! Humana does offer Medigap plans . Of the 11 different plans in the marketplace , Humana offers Medigap plans A , B , C , F , G , K , L , N , and High-deductible F - please note , not every medigap plan may be available and may not be sold in every area . Medigap plans are the same from every company because they 're standardized by the government . The only difference between the coverage from each carrier is the price they charge for it . Price quotes are determined by the quoted plan -LRB- s -RRB- , your age , zip code , any tobacco usage , and marital status -LRB- some carriers offer rate discounts if married and if spouses applying together -RRB- . It 's important to compare the rates from every available option in your area -LRB- including Humana and every other insurer offering Medigap plans in your zip code -RRB- so you can secure your desired Medigap plan at the lowest possible cost . If you need quotes for Humana 's Medigap plans -LRB- as well as those from other carriers to compare to as well -RRB- , please give me a call at 888-972-0024 - that connects to my office directly -LRB- not an automated system -RRB- . You can also send me an e-mail by clicking on the `` contact me '' button next to my name . I hope the information is helpful - please feel free to contact me for help with any other questions as well . Thanks very much .
A Medigap Policy -LRB- Medicare Supplement insurance -RRB- offers great peace of mind when it comes to your health care . Original Medicare Part A and Part B , generally cover 80 % of your Medicare approved amounts for covered medical costs . Medigap Plans will help pay that remaining 20 % by covering the costs of copays , coinsurance , and deductibles . Some people think they do n't need a Medigap Plan because they have n't had any health issues . While that is great news , we do n't have a crystal ball to predict the future . A Medigap Plan that is already in place is there to offer that protection when you need it . If you wait until a significant health issue arises , it may be too late . Medicare Supplement insurance companies use medical underwriting to issue policies . If you 're not in a Guaranteed Issue or Initial Enrollment situation , you will have to answer health questions . Medigap policies do not fall under the Affordable Care Act umbrella , so insurance companies can deny you a policy based on your health . I 'll close with an example of a lady who called me wanting to add a Medigap Plan to her Original Medicare Part A and Part B . She was diagnosed with breast cancer and had a mastectomy . As you can imagine , her hospital and doctor bills were substantial and she was looking for some help . I had to share the unfortunate news with her that because of her recent diagnosis she would not be able to apply for a Medigap policy at this time , but possibly in two years we could re-evaluate her situation . That 's quite a bit of time for more bills to pile up . Had she already put a Medigap Plan in place , her savings would be substantial . Just for example sake , a Medigap Plan F might cost someone $ 130 a month or $ 1,560 over twelve months . Still a lot lower than 20 % of a $ 100,000 operation . A couple of the most popular Medigap Plans are Plan F and Plan G. & nbspMedigap Plan F will cover all Medicare approved amounts . You do not have to pay any deductibles , co-insurance , or co-pays . Plan G acts just like Plan F after you have met the small Part B deductible -LRB- $ 147 in 2014 -RRB- . If you would like more information about the benefits of Medigap Plans , please feel free to contact me at 1-888-411-1329 . You can also visit my website at www.remedigap.com and check out my client testimonials .
A medigap policy is also known as a Medicare Supplement policy . These policies are issued by a number of insurance companies in response to the out of pocket expenses that are not covered by Medicare , part A and Part B . A medigap policy is almost necessary for all Medicare participants . There can be massive out-of-pocket expenses in Medicare and the money that could be provided by the plan far outweigh the cost of the plan . These plans were developed by private companies . In response to the wide variety of policies developed the federal government decided to regulate these policies in the 1980s . The desire was to provide uniformity of benefits . There are ten different medigap policies available . They are referenced by letters A , B , C , D , F , G , K , L , M and N. Although these plans can change from time to time they have maintained these designations . Companies are not required to identify their policy by these letters and will often introduce stylized names such as Senior Select Medigap policy . It is most important to understand that all of the plans must contain core benefits . As they add additional benefits they must fall into one of the letter categories . This helps to compare plans and to insure that your needs are properly covered . You can enroll in a medigap policy during certain periods . During those periods the policy is guaranteed to be issued without medical underwriting . If the policy is desired after the set period medical underwriting can be required and the premium can be altered . The open enrollment period begins on the first day of the month in which you reach age 65 or older and enroll in Medicare Part B . This enrollment period continues for six months . People who are disenrolling from Medicare Advantage can receive a guaranteed issued medigap policy for 12 months when they enroll in traditional Medicare . There are other circumstances under which a person would be eligible for a Medigap policy without providing evidence of insurance . There are five core benefits contained in every medigap plan . The first is that the plan will pay the Medicare Part A copayments for days 61-90 . These copayments were $ 289 per day of hospitalization in 2012 . Another core benefit is Medicare Part A lifetime reserve copayments for days 91-150 . These copayments are $ 578 per day in 2012 . Another core benefit is up to 365 additional days of hospital stay beyond Medicare coverage . The medigap policies also provide cover the Medicare Part B coinsurance . This doesnt apply to preventive services , and the first three pints of blood if needed . These core benefits comprise an A plan . Subsequent plans offer increased benefits which include skilled nursing facility care copayments for days 21-100 . That cost was $ 144.50 in 2012 . The plan can provide for the Medicare Part A hospital deductible . That amount was $ 1184 in 2013 . The plan can provide the annual Medicare Part B deductible which was $ 147 in 2013 . Some plans include coverage for the Medicare Part B excess charges . Several plans include foreign travel emergency coverage . Every plan is priced by the insurance company . Sometimes the company offers the plan based upon the community . In other cases the pricing is determined by the age at which the plan is initiated . In other cases the plan is based on attained age and can increase as the policyholder ages . The core benefits can save you a great deal of money . Selecting the additional benefits is probably best done with a counsellor that you trust .
AARP Medigap plans are Medigap plans insured through United Healthcare . In short , AARP partnered with United Healthcare to attach their name to UHC 's products . As Medigap plans feature standardized benefits , the coverage under each Medigap plan is exactly the same as it would be if you purchased the coverage from another carrier . The main way the AARP Medigap plans differentiates themselves from other Medigap carriers is through their premium rating method . Most carriers determine their rates based on the attained-age rating method -LRB- your age at the time you apply with rates increasing as you get older each year -RRB- . AARP Medigap plans -LRB- insured through United Healthcare -RRB- are based on the community-rated method -LRB- everyone in an area pays the same rates regardless of their age - meaning an 85 year old is paying the same thing as a 75 year old -RRB- . Please note , the carrier also offers value-added services such as discounts for certain things such as eye exams and also offer a 24/7 nurse hotline , and silversneakers membership . You must be an AARP member to buy an AARP Medigap plan - membership can be attained during the application process . I hope the information is helpful - please feel free to contact me for assistance with your Medigap coverage including quotes and comparison and if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
A Medicare supplement -LRB- Medigap -RRB- insurance , sold by private companies , can help pay some of the health care costs that Original Medicare does n't cover , like copayments , coinsurance , and deductibles . Some Medigap policies also offer coverage for services that Original Medicare does n't cover , like medical care when you travel outside the U.S. . If you have Original Medicare and you buy a Medigap policy , Medicare will pay its share of the Medicare-approved amount for covered health care costs . Then your Medigap policy pays its share . A Medigap policy is different from a Medicare Advantage Plan . Those plans are ways to get Medicare benefits , while a Medigap policy only supplements your Original Medicare benefits . Medigap policies do n't cover everything ! Medigap policies generally do n't cover WEBSITELINK long-term care , vision or dental care , hearing aids , eyeglasses , or private-duty nursing .
Since all Medigap plans are standardized , the benefits are exactly the same with every insurance company . This means that Medigap Plan F with ABC insurance company is the exact same Medigap Plan F with XYZ insurance company . The only difference is price . Medicare does not regulate the price of Medigap Plans ... just the benefits . That 's why there is such a competitive market . Many Medicare Beneficiaries like the idea of purchasing Medigap through a well known insurance company , but that does n't mean you are going to get the best price . Medigap is not like health insurance for under age 65 where a Medical director approves or denies your bills . Medigap payments are made by the insurance carrier if it 's a Medicare approved item because they have to -- it 's the law . I suppose that was the long way of saying there is n't one insurance company that has the best Medigap coverage . They all offer the same standardized plans and pay the bills based upon CMS regulations .
Medigap Plan G is a standardized Medicare Supplement insurance plan designed to fill in the ` gaps ' that Medicare does n't pay . Medigap Plan G covers 100 % of the following after meeting the Part B deductible $ 147 -LRB- 2014 -RRB- : 1 . Medicare Part A Coinsurance and Medicare approved hospital costs 2 . Medicare Part B Coinsurance or Copayment 3 . Blood -LRB- First 3 Pints -RRB- 4 . Part A Hospice Care Coinsurance or Copayment 5 . Skilled Nursing Facility Care Coinsurance 6 . Medicare Part A Deductible 7 . Medicare Part B Excess Charges 8 . Foreign Travel Emergency -LRB- Up to Plan Limits -RRB- While Medigap Plan G benefits are standardized , it is sold through private health insurance companies . This means any insurance company that offers Medigap Plan G is required by law to provide Medigap Plan G benefits . The only difference is price . ABC insurance company can charge a completely different premium than XYZ insurance company for the same exact Medigap Plan G. It 's best to work with an independent agent specializing in Medicare Supplement insurance . We can shop the market for you . We have contracts with insurance companies that you do not see online . This is how we help our clients find low Medigap Plan G premiums . Afterall , Plan G is Plan G -- you might as well find the the plan with the best rate . Please feel free to contact me if I can assist you with your specific situation . In just a matter of minutes , I can provide you with quotes for Medigap Plan G in your area .
If you are new to Medicare and in your Initial Enrollment Period you are also in your Medigap Open Enrollment Period . This is a one time event that lasts for 6 month . It begins the first day of the month in which you turn 65 or older and are enrolled in Medicare Part B . During this time you can purchase any Medigap Plan an insurance company offers in your state without answering any medical questions . Not knowing what your health may be in the future , It 's a great time to get Medigap . The Annual Election Period -LRB- Oct 15 through Dec 7 -RRB- is a time for you to change your Prescription Drug Plan -LRB- Part D -RRB- . You do not have to make any changes to your Medigap Plan . Medigap Plans are guaranteed renewable . As long as you make your premium payments , the plan is yours to keep . If you want to apply for a new Medigap plan or replace an existing plan outside of your initial Open Enrollment period , you 'll have to answer health questions . The good news is that insurance companies each have their own set of unique medical questions . I 've seen insulin dependent diabetics get declined with one company but offered a policy with another .
Medigap plans -LRB- commonly referred to as Medicare supplement plans -RRB- are supplemental insurance plans that cover all or a portion of the gaps in Original Medicare -LRB- depending on which Medigap plan you buy -RRB- . They are designed to help seniors who want high quality healthcare and are on Medicare , cover the gap between what hospitals and doctors charge for their services and what Medicare will pay . Health insurance is constantly changing , which can make finding the right plan for you very strenuous . Supplementing your Original Medicare coverage -LRB- Medicare Parts A & B -RRB- with a Medicare Supplement plan will help you create a very predictable expense structure for your healthcare and allow you to see any doctor you want that accepts Medicare . Any doctor that accepts Medicare will also accept your Medicare Supplement plan . There are 10 different Medicare supplement plans and they are all standardized , meaning a plan F from company A and a plan F from company B feature the EXACT same benefits . The 10 different plans available are plans A , B , C , D , F , G , K , L , M , and N -LRB- a high-deductible plan F is also available that features a $ 2,140 deductible in 2014 - the trade-off being a substantially reduced premium -RRB- . Each plan offers certain benefits some more comprehensive than others . Each plan must cover a core set of benefits -LRB- also known as the basic benefits -RRB- . The basic benefits are 1 -RRB- Medicare Part A coinsurance plus coverage for 365 additional days after Medicare benefits are used up . 2 -RRB- Medicare Part B coinsurance or copayment 3 -RRB- First 3 pints of blood 4 -RRB- Part A hospice care coinsurance or copayment There 's a total of 9 benefits that can be secured . The other 5 benefits available under a Medigap plan are : 1 -RRB- Skilled Nursing Facility Care coinsurance 2 -RRB- Medicare Part A deductible 3 -RRB- Medicare Part B deductible 4 -RRB- Medicare Part B excess charges 5 -RRB- Foreign travel emergency -LRB- up to plan limits -RRB- Each plan features a different structure , Each plan covers a different combination of these 9 benefits -LRB- some of the plans feature coinsurance or copayments for certain benefits -RRB- . If cost is not a major factor for you , Plan F will be the recommended choice because it covers all 9 benefits at 100 % - it 's the most popular plan by far . If you 're looking to keep your costs down , but still have very comprehensive coverage , you may want to look at plans C , G , and N as well . When you 're looking to buy a Medigap plan , you should consult with an independent Medigap insurance agent to review the plans in detail to see which one will best serve your needs , help you identify all of the carriers offering Medigap plans in your zip code , and which one will be able to offer the coverage to you at the lowest cost -LRB- the plans are standardized so the biggest difference between them is price - the benefits are exactly the same regardless of the carrier you have the Medigap plan through -RRB- . I hope the information is helpful - please feel free to contact me for assistance with your Medigap coverage needs , including quotes and plan comparisons , and if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
Yes and no . You can not be turned down for Medigap Insurance if : You are in your Open Enrollment Period -- the one-time only , 6 month period that allows you to buy any Medigap policy you want that is sold in your state -LRB- starting the first month you 're covered under Medicare Part B AND you 're 65 or older -RRB- . During this period , an insurance company can not deny you a Medigap policy . Your Medicare Advantage Plan is leaving Medicare or stops giving care in your area , or you move out of your Medicare Advantage Plan area . You have orignial Medicare and an employer , retiree , union , or COBRA coverage that is ending . You move out of the service area for your Medicare SELECT policy . When you were first eligible for Part A at 65 , you joined a Medicare Advantage Plan or PACE program and you decide within the first year of joining to switch back to Original Medicare . You dropped a Medigap policy to join a Medicare Advantage Plan for the first time , it 's been les than a year and you want to switch back . The Medigap insurance company that holds your policy goes bankrupt , or your coverage otherwise ends through no fault of your own . However ... If you already have a Medigap policy and want to switch to another company , you will be required to answer health questions on the application . All insurance companies are unique with their medical underwriting guidelines ; but , you must be approved in order to buy a Medigap policy . If you have original Medicare Part A and B and are outside the Open Enrollment Period , then you will also be required to answer health questions to be approved through the medical underwriting process . Every individual case is unique and an agent who specializes in Medicare Supplement insurance , can help you determine your ability to get Medigap insurance . If I can be of assistance , please call me at 1-888-411-1329 .
end question
start question
life-insurance
What Is A Good Life Insurance Company ?
A good life insurance company for you is the one that will give you the best rates . I mean , the bottom line is that you do not want to overpay for coverage , right ? Underwriting drives the purchase of life insurance . Which company will underwrite you most aggressively ? It has to be a company that has a sophisticated understanding of the risk you represent , and a comfort level with being aggressive in applying their underwriting guidelines . Lets suppose you unfortunately have diabetes . Your broker would have to find you a company that is very competitive in underwriting diabetics . The same applies for people who have hepatitis , and a cancer history , and heart disease , and who climb mountains , and who scuba dive , etc. . Companies vary widely in their willingness and capability for taking on different risks at a good price . And this can change over time . The company that was good for people who are overweight last year , may not be the best one this year . Not only that : even a company who is usually good for your underwriting risk , may not be the right company for you at this time . Like every other business , life insurance companies can have ebbs and flows in their level of service . They may be short-staffed . They may be experiencing a huge backlog of cases . There may be a merger or an acquisition in the wind which will affect their underwriting decisions . Then again , there could be factors that would work in your favor . A company may want to close out the year with an influx of good business , and make you an exceptional offer . Sometimes they make just want to make a business decision and take your case because they like it . If your broker prequalifies you properly , all these factors will be addressed . Youll be confident that youve chosen a good company .
A good life insurance company is one that will be there , and be able to pay your beneficiary , when you die . It is one that will use your premiums in a responsible fashion and , if you purchased Whole or Universal Life , generate as much cash value for you as possible . It will provide good customer service . This type of life insurance company usually has a high rating by one or more rating companies . Looking at those ratings and the accompanying financial data by AM Best , S&P , Moody 's and Fitch 's is the easiest way to determine a good life insurance company .
Here is a list of companies , all A-rated , that Quality Term Life quotes on our website . American General Life Insurance Company American National Insurance Company Aviva Life and Annuity Company AXA Equitable Life Insurance Company Baltimore Life Insurance Company Banner Life Insurance Company Fidelity Life Association Genworth Life and Annuity Insurance Co John Hancock Life Insurance Company USA John Hancock Life Insurance Company NY Lincoln National Life Insurance Company MetLife Investors USA Insurance Company Minnesota Life Insurance Company MTL Insurance Company Nationwide Life and Annuity Insurance Co North American Co for Life and Health Ohio National Life Assurance Corporation Pruco Life Insurance Company ReliaStar Life Insurance Company -LRB- ING -RRB- ReliaStar Life Insurance of NY -LRB- ING -RRB- Royal Neighbors of America Sagicor Life Insurance Company Savings Bank Life Insurance Co of MA Securian Life Insurance Company Transamerica Financial Life Insurance Co Transamerica Life Insurance Company United Home Life Insurance Company United of Omaha Life Insurance Company Note that you will see many big names missing here . Like AAA , Farmers , State Farm , etc. . That 's because these companies require their agents to sell only their life insurance , in other words they are n't independent , so no shopping around for you . And their prices tend to be much higher for similar coverage .
There are quite a few good insurance companies out there . What you want to do is look at financial ratings to get an idea of the quality of a carrier . Carriers pay financial ratings companies to review their books and assign a letter grade as a representation of the company 's quality . Different ratings agencies view companies with a different pov , so it is always good when choosing a good company to find one that has been reviewed by several ratings companies . You might want to check with your state insurance commissioner 's office to see what complaints or fines have been applied to companies . The good thing to know , is there are a lot of companies that are good out there . That is where the strength of the insurance industry is . Not just a few companies , but many companies of quality .
-- > Normal 0 What makes up a good homeowners insurance policy ? In my mind its a policy that is going to do what you want it to do , at a price you are willing to pay . The problem is , most insurance buyers dont really know what they want the policy to do . Most people seem to want a policy to repair or replace their home if its damaged . To me that means you want an all-risk policy on your home with a Guaranteed Replacement Cost feature , which automatically increases your amount of insurance following a loss , to whatever it takes to rebuild your home if it is damaged and has to be rebuilt . All - Risk type policies will not cover everything but they will specifically state what you are not covered for and you can decide where to go from there . Few policies include the Guaranteed Replacement feature ; so make sure you ask for it . And if the company doesnt offer it , you may want to check with someone else . Most people also want their personal stuff replaced should it be damaged or destroyed . So a good homeowners policy should do that . That means , all-risk replacement cost coverage for all your stuff . If its not all-risk -LRB- often called Special Coverage or Open Perils -RRB- Replacement Cost , you may want to look further . Again , not all types of damage will be covered but the policy will tell you what you are not covered for so you wont have any surprises . Often specific exclusions can be eliminated for an additional cost . Most policies dont include these features so make sure you ask for them if that is the kind of coverage you expect . Good homeowners policies will include coverage for the additional expenses you may incur should your home be damaged and you have to live somewhere else while it is being repaired and a nominal amount of Personal Liability coverage , a good one will have limits not less than $ 300,000 . A good homeowners policy will be offered by a financially strong , at least A-rated insurance company hopefully with a local contact to help you understand what you are getting , makes sure it covers any special situations that make up your life and is there should you have a significant claim . A good homeowners policy is one that doesnt get cancelled the first time you have a claim . Buying insurance on-line may be popular and convenient but you have to know what you are doing . Remember if there is a problem , you are one small policy and they are one big insurance company . It may be a good time to have somebody local on your side .
To find good life insurance , find a good broker . He or she will help you determine what is good for you . What amount ... what cost ... what carrier are good for you ? A good broker will help you find out - and find this all out before you apply , so you can be confident of the outcome of underwriting . Good life insurance is a policy you are glad to buy .
A good life insurance agent has some important characteristics . A good agent is a good listener . A good agent will listen to you and will check with you to make sure that you are fully understood . A good agent communicates clearly to both you and to the insurance company . The agent should explain as completely as possible the details of the policy and patiently answer your questions . The good agent will communicate your information and concerns to the underwriting staff of the insurance company . Underwriters are usually quite conservative . The more that the agent can paint a picture that the underwriter can understand ; it is more likely that you will have a good outcome . Finally a good agent offers sound financial advice . A good agent isnt an order taker . A good agent will show you the advantages of alternate approaches to your problem . A good agent will not leave out anything vital to the case and will carefully counsel you as it regards your unique situation . Are there many good life insurance agents ? I think that there are , however , they are often in demand and do little to solicit business . You probably need to check with your colleagues and friends and locate that good life insurance agent that they trust .
A good life insurance company for you is the one that will give you the best rates . I mean , the bottom line is that you do not want to overpay for coverage , right ? Underwriting drives the purchase of life insurance . Which company will underwrite you most aggressively ? It has to be a company that has a sophisticated understanding of the risk you represent , and a comfort level with being aggressive in applying their underwriting guidelines . Lets suppose you unfortunately have diabetes . Your broker would have to find you a company that is very competitive in underwriting diabetics . The same applies for people who have hepatitis , and a cancer history , and heart disease , and who climb mountains , and who scuba dive , etc. . Companies vary widely in their willingness and capability for taking on different risks at a good price . And this can change over time . The company that was good for people who are overweight last year , may not be the best one this year . Not only that : even a company who is usually good for your underwriting risk , may not be the right company for you at this time . Like every other business , life insurance companies can have ebbs and flows in their level of service . They may be short-staffed . They may be experiencing a huge backlog of cases . There may be a merger or an acquisition in the wind which will affect their underwriting decisions . Then again , there could be factors that would work in your favor . A company may want to close out the year with an influx of good business , and make you an exceptional offer . Sometimes they make just want to make a business decision and take your case because they like it . If your broker prequalifies you properly , all these factors will be addressed . Youll be confident that youve chosen a good company .
Finding a life insurance policy begins with finding a life insurance agent . Most life insurance companies require the middle person of an agent in order to purchase their coverage , and even No Exam policies that are offered online or through organizations usually need you to talk to an agent to get them . Finding an agent is as easy as googling `` life insurance quote '' and filling out a form . Or you can call someone local , or call someone on the internet that looks like you can trust them . Once you get that part done , the agent will help you figure out what type of policy to get . Keep your mind open , as what fits your health or budget may not be what you expected , and there are many options that a good agent will know about , to help you get the best possible coverage at the cheapest price . On the other hand , beware of agents who seem to be pushing you to one product for no good reason . Their goal should be to help you get what you need , not sell what they need to make a quota . In the end , life insurance is such a vast industry and there are so many variables that it is very difficult to get the best price entirely on your own . A good website quoter and a good agent can provide invaluable assistance in getting the affordable life insurance that you need .
It can be very confusing to try to figure out what type of life insurance policy to buy , what amount , and from what company . As a rule , life insurance policies only come in a few types -LRB- Term , Whole , Universal and variations such as Indexed or Variable -RRB- . Many companies carry all of them . However , some policies do have features that are more favorable than others . E.g. longer guarantee periods , greater cash value , etc. . In that respect , some companies carry policies with better features than others . It is always a good idea to look at the rating of the life insurance company itself . If its rating with AM Best , Fitch , S&P and/or Moody 's is good , most likely the life insurance carried by that company will have good products to choose from . And you will know that they will pay out if needed , which is of utmost consideration .
There is no way to say what life insurance will cost for any one person . Good life insurance is a policy that has some guarantees , is with a good company , and accomplishes the purposes for which you are purchasing it . To find what the cost of good life insurance for you , you 'd need to contact an agency that will help you discern your purposes for your policy , then find your best rate from a good life insurance company .
The best insurance company is the company that pays the most when you have a loss . All insurance companies are companies that manage a pool of similar risks . Every insurance company is regulated by the insurance commissioner in the state where the company is organized and the state where the company is allowed to transact business . This combination of state supervision is designed to make sure that each company keeps their promises . There are rating bureaus that offer information concerning various insurance companies . These bureaus generally give higher ratings to larger companies with longer histories . They are rating the financial capacity of the companies . While this is a good indicator of which insurance company to choose it is far from the only criteria . Ultimately most people buy homeowners insurance from an agent . That agent might represent one company or one hundred companies . The point is that the relationship is not with the company as much as it is with the agent . People buy insurance from people that they trust . A good agent will listen to you , provide sound financial advice and communicate clearly with you and the insurance company . The agent will propose a company . Few reject the company selected by the agent . The role of the company is to keep the promises that it makes . There are a wide range of homes for insurance companies to insure . Some companies have an appetite for homes that are in the mountains or heavily wooded areas . Other companies will not even consider such a risk . Some companies will insure homes on bluffs overlooking the ocean while others wont consider such a risk . Underwriting will often have special rules regarding roof type , location of an evaporative cooler , presence of certain pets and presence of certain types of recreational equipment . There are many reasons for some of these underwriting decisions but the agent will be able to identify the best company for you . The underwriter will try to suggest appropriate coverages . Even if you had the most highly rated company if the limits selected are not adequate , you could be left with a large loss in the event of a disaster . For example , you might have a significant amount of jewelry , photographic equipment , or musical instruments . If these are not insured correctly their loss could represent a significant financial loss for you . The most significant area of underinsuring is liability . Your agent should let you know the highest amount that the company will provide . If you choose less coverage , any loss in excess to the limit in the policy will come out of your assets . Your agent should tell you about the availability of umbrella liability coverage . A lawsuit can make havoc out of the best financial plan . Finally the way that the company pays the loss when you have a claim is the most critical factor . Homeowners claims are infrequent but tend to be severe . It is important that the agent you have selected assists you during this critical period . Maintaining communications with you during a claim is an identification of a really good insurance company .
I 'm not going to get into a discussion about an company 's representatives , but simply about the company itself . The question of ` Good '' as it applies to a life insurance company is a very subjective thing . Every company has strengths and weaknesses and , usually , a place in the market . Primerica is no different -LRB- no , I 'm not a Primerica representative -RRB- . The company itself is pretty financially stable and has an A + rating with A.M. Best . That means they have the financial assets to pay their claims . The best life insurance is the life insurance that 's in force when you need it , period . We can talk all day about specific programs , cost , performance , etc. but there is n't one answer . It 's different for every person and every situation . A good agent will take the time to get to know you and your situation and put together a program that does what you wand it to . There are a lot of good companies out there . I would consider Primerica Life a good company . Now , do they have the products that fit what you need ? I have no idea . My advice is this : Be smart and find an agent you can trust . They 'll help you put together a program that works for you and your situation .
There are hundreds and hundreds of good lifeinsurance companies . There are certain things to look for in getting good products at good premiums . First look for life insurance companies that specialize in life insurance and not the car or health companies that sell life insurance as a product line . You can choose well known life companies like Metlife , Prudential , NY Life , Transamerica , ING or John Hancock . These are great life insurance companies with big marketing budgets so theydo not always have the best premiums for the coverage . There are great little known life insurance companies like SBLI , Banner , Genworth , Assurity or Minnesota Life that usually independent brokers know about but not the general public because they do n't market their company and many times have better premiums for the same exact product of the well known names . Second look at the companies ratings with AM Best , Moody 's , Standard Poor 's and Fitch . Only choose `` A '' rated companies for financial strength . You want the company to pay your loved ones when you die .
Transamerica Life Insurance Company , Transamerica Financial Life Insurance Company and Transamerica Advisors Life Insurance Company are under the parent company Aegon . At this time , these companies are rated A + by AM Best . They offer an array of good products at competitive prices . Transamerica Life Insurance is a good company with good products .
Term life insurance is good to pay large expenses that only last for a set length of time . A mortgage , small business loan , or tuition loan are some large liabilities that most people do not have the money saved up to pay off , if they should die prematurely . But they are expenses that will not last forever . Therefore , Term insurance is a low cost way to cover those large debts for a set period of time , without breaking the bank . Another thing Term insurance is good for is raising a family . I recommend purchasing Term insurance long enough to get the youngest child to at least age 23 . Not in every case , but generally , I feel that Term insurance is not good for small face amounts . Most people who rely on life insurance to cover small debts , will also need life insurance to cover their final expenses . There are so many reasonably priced Whole Life policies that can be purchased in very small face amounts , and for persons of all type of health . And you can really save a lot of money on those policies by buying them at a younger age . Some can be paid up in a set number of years , and some have such good cash value that , if you decided to stop paying on the policy in the future , you would still have a decent sized paid up policy to hold onto . Of course , Term Life is also not good for any need that does not end until death . E.g. Funeral costs , paying estate settlement costs , passing money to grandchildren , etc. . Unless you know that you will have a large stream of money in the future so that you can afford to convert your Term insurance to permanent later on , you are usually better off just buying Whole Life or guaranteed no lapse Universal Life , to start with , for needs that do not end until death . Those are my general opinions on what Term Life Insurance is good for , and what it is not so good for . There are many exceptions as each person 's situation is different and policies can be set up to accomplish different purposes . Please do not hesitate to give me a call if you 'd like to discuss this in person .
How good is Primerica Life ? Well , they are a decently rated company with premiums charged falling about mid-range on the pricing scale . That is you can find quite a few good companies whose pricing of term insurance is better and you can find other good companies whose pricing is worse . Primerica has a limited product selection and offers no conversion options for the insured if they want to maintain a level cost for coverage for a longer period of time . The biggest knock against Primerica is their field force . They attempt to have their company stand out by disparaging all other companies out there . Which if true , would mean a financial disaster for the country and possibly the world . There are many many very good companies out there and it 's good that there are .
Shopping for Medicare Supplement insurance can be confusing . You should find an independent insurance broker or agent , who can help you shop and also can explain the ins & outs of Medicare with you . A good agent will have multiple companies to offer you and will be able to discuss your particular needs and budget to determine what plan design and company would meet your needs . Most who carry Medicare Supplements will also be able to assist you with Part D coverage as well . There are also Medicare `` Advocates '' in many states who are trained by Medicare . They can be a tremendous help in educating people about Medicare in general , what product choices that a person will have & usually can assist in Part D enrollment . What I have found with these people is that even if they can discuss all of the supplement plans with someone - they can not actually enroll them , since they are not salespeople . But , they are a very good source of agnostic information . In addition , there are many online sources to run quotes & see rates . Even though that sounds like a good way to shop , it does n't provide overall education about differences in various companies , the issue basis of the policies being quoted , or any state specific laws and rules that could impact the person applying in the future . Even if someone has a good idea of various rates , it 's still best to sit down with a real person & make sure you receive all of the information necessary to make a good decision .
The company with the best whole life insurance is the one that can solve all of your insurance problems . I do n't know which company that is ; however I will give you a few clues . Decide what your financial goals are . If you only desire to pay for your funeral , then a final expense policy may be right for you . The premiums are more expensive , but it gets the job done . If you are a working adult with a spouse and/or children , consider term life insurance . This may be a better option . Decide how much you would like your premium -LRB- periodic payment for insurance -RRB- to be . Hint : Your premium payment should be no more than 6 % of your monthly or annual income . Once you find companies that meet those criteria , find out what additional benefits you will receive from them . Many companies offer complimentary benefits such as free accidental death coverage . Check out the company 's reputation . If the reputation is poor , it could be that way for a reason . These are a few ways to find a good company to do business with ; however , the best way to find a suitable life insurance company is to find a good insurance broker or senior agent . That person will ask the right questions on your behalf in order to find the best match to your goals . I hope this helps . Good luck !
What is a good rate for whole life insurance ? What ever you can qualify for is the correct answer . You are the discount . Your good health and good health history reduces the rate for whole life -LRB- actually all types of life insurance basically -RRB- and provides you the discounted cost you seek . So if you have taken good care of yourself , the best rates will be available to you .
end question
start question
auto-insurance
What Is Full Coverage Auto Insurance ?
If you have a loan on your vehicle your loan provider will typically require you to have full coverage on the vehicle until the loan amount is satisfied . The loan provider will also typically request that you have a deductible level of no greater than $ 1000 for collision and other than collision -LRB- comprehensive -RRB- .
`` Full coverage '' means that your policy includes both physical damage coverage for your car and liability coverage to protect you if sued as a result of an accident that you cause . Physical damage is both Comprehensive and Collision . Collision is the more narrowly defined . That is coverage for your car caused by collision with another car , a stationary object or a human being . Comprehensive covers damage for just about everything else-fire , theft , vandalism , hit by a fallen tree , if you hit an animal etc. .
A hybrid life insurance policy blends both non-medical and fully underwritten coverage . The idea is you get a portion of the death benefit being applied for as full coverage without an exam -LRB- the rest being AD&D coverage -RRB- and the rest turns into full coverage after an exam is completed and you 're approved . The initial process can be completed in just a few days -LRB- typically 48 hours or so -RRB- - when the exam is completed , it can take a few weeks for the underwriting to be wrapped up . Once the initial non-medical coverage is in force , you can then decide to take an exam to turn the rest of the coverage into full coverage -LRB- you generally have a window of about 6 months to complete the exam - can vary by carrier -RRB- . Even if you come up with poor numbers and are declined for the rest of the coverage being turned into full coverage , you can still keep the initial format of the plan because it 's already in force . It 's probably easier to envision with an example . If you apply for $ 250,000 of coverage with a 20-year term period under a hybrid life policy and you 're approved for the non-medical side -LRB- again , typically takes only a couple of days -RRB- , only a portion of the coverage will be full coverage . So let 's say the coverage is actually $ 100,000 of full coverage and $ 150,000 is AD&D -LRB- actual ratios will vary by carrier -RRB- . This means that if you died without completing the exam and getting the rest of the coverage approved , only $ 100,000 would be paid out instead of the full $ 250,000 . The only way the full $ 250,000 would be paid is if you died under accidental means -LRB- e.g. a car accident -RRB- . It sounds like a great idea on paper , right ? You 're getting coverage quickly and you 've got something locked in in case you ca n't qualify for the full coverage transition . There 's a huge issue with this type of program !!!! The RATE PER $ 1,000 of full coverage that you 're paying under a hybrid life policy can -LRB- and likely will be -RRB- A LOT higher than you would be paying for coverage under a traditional life policy - meaning you can end up spending a ton of extra money on premiums unnecessarily that could easily be in your own pocket . The chances of a claim for AD&D coverage is slim to none . You 're most likely to die from illness than you are to die from injury . *** You want to be paying the lowest cost per $ 1,000 of full coverage - this is the key point you want to look at when you 're buying your coverage . *** Think about it this way . If you 've got a $ 250,000 non-medical policy and a $ 250,000 hybrid policy , and the premium for the hybrid policy is less , you 're actually paying a much higher rate because only a portion of the face amount is full coverage , where as the entire face amount under the regular non-med policy is 100 % full coverage . But you can just take the exam and turn it into full coverage right ? Problem solved ? - NO !!! If you 're willing to take an exam in the first place , you may as well have just done a traditional fully underwritten program to start with , because the premiums for those programs are substantially less than they are for hybrid policies and you have full coverage from day 1 . The long and short of it is this - if you do n't want to take an exam , buy a non-medical policy . If you 're willing to take an exam to lower your premiums or secure a higher amount of coverage , apply for a fully underwritten program because you 're going to get much better rates . The idea with hybrid policies is to try to get the best of both worlds , but the process just does n't make much sense with how much you 're spending for full coverage . I hope this provides some clarification for you . Please feel free to contact me for further assistance . Thanks very much .
All insurance auto policies are the same they all have liability which is damage to other . Then you have optional coverage of un insured and under insured and medical pay then of course the option of `` Full '' coverage which really is not the best choice of words for coverage but that is coverage that repairs your auto in the even of a loss minus the deductible . The best coverage would be to have higher limits and full coverage . How ever you budget needs to thought about also . If you are purchasing all the coverage and ca n't afford the higher deductible then full coverage may not be the best option for you . Before you ever purchase a car or insurance shop around call a local agent and discuss what options you have . Many agencies demand that you have certain limits which is recommended to have the higher limits but it is pointless if you ca n't afford the higher limits because if it means eating or insurance well you going to choose food . Talk to an agent who will listen to your concerns and find you the most affordable rate and coverage that your desire . Online quotes can sometime be lower but the service sometimes is not as well as an agent example at our agency you can reach us 24/7 we never want you to ever have to call a 800 number and talk to a stranger .
You 're going to want to read your policy . Often times , your auto insurance will extend the highest level of coverage on your policy to a vehicle you are driving with permission or renting . If you have full coverage -LRB- ie . comprehensive and collision coverage -RRB- , you would be extended full coverage . However , almost all insurance policies exclude coverage for loss of use of that other vehicle and will only pay market value for the loss of the vehicle . So , if you are in an accident with a rental car , the rental company has the right to charge you for each day it is out of service being repaired -LRB- YOU PAY THIS , NOT INSURANCE -RRB- . Also , if the auto company has a value on the books of $ 20,000 for the vehicle and your insurance company only pays $ 15,000 for the car in a total loss , you are responsible for the difference . EVERY insurance agent who knows anything , would tell you to take the third party insurance coverage . If you plan ahead however , Travel Guard by Chartis offers the same coverage the rental companies will , minus liability which would be through your insurance , to protect against the loss of use and the difference in value .
As I illustrated recently to a class of high school freshmen , that is really a complicated question but let me clarify full-coverage first . Insurance agents only use that term when someone else introduces the subject . We know that full-coverage does not mean that the insurance company will make everything right all the time . Policies have limits , claims are adjusted and there are a great many places where there could be misunderstandings . An insurance policy has two major sections , liability and property damage . Many people think that if they have coverage in both sections they have full-coverage . If they cause an accident and people are injured , they might well be sued . The liability portion of the policy will stand between them and the injured party until the judgments and expenses exceed the liability limits written in their policy . These limits can range from $ 15,000 to over $ 1 million . So if someone is injured and sues and wins a judgment in the amount of $ 50,000 , your full-coverage policy might not meet your needs and the court might be looking at your other assets to satisfy the judgment . A similar disagreement can arise with property damage . This is settled on actual cash value , unless you have a rare policy with agreed value coverage . There are two problems which present themselves . You might really love your little Ford Focus that you bought two years ago and when it is damaged disagree with the adjuster on the value of the car . When the car is inspected the adjuster may decide that the car can not be repaired economically . The adjusted value presented will probably be less than you expected because there is a deductible which will be taken out of the settlement . Again , your full-coverage policy may not cover you in the way that you want . However , you asked about cost and in California the cost is dependent on the year , make and model of the vehicle , where the vehicle is registered , the driving record of the members of the household , the annual mileage of the vehicle , and then the coverages that you select . Companies offer discounts and sometimes assess penalties based on driving histories , other types of coverage , the occupation of the principal operator and other factors . The answer to how much it costs is , it depends .
It simply means that you have both liability and collision / other collision deductibles , but full coverage is a nice term used by most car salespeople . You can have state minimum coverage and have what they call full coverage , but if you 're carrying state minimum coverage that will probably be an issue if you have more than a fender bender . The best thing to do is to contact a local independent agent and see what you need to protect . Based on studies , 75 % of all people are under insured on their auto and with 1 out of 6 people in the U.S. not having insurance , that is a deadly combination .
Almost all carriers allow you to pay your auto insurance premiums on a monthly , quarterly , semi-annual , or annual basis . If you pay a full semi-annual term or an annual term in full many carriers will provide you with an extra discount for paying in full . Please contact your local agent to find out what payment options that your carrier has available .
This remains an area of great confusion to many small business owners . If you have less than 50 employees the answer is `` No '' . The employer mandate provision of the Affordable Care Act -LRB- ObamaCare -RRB- apply to employers with 100 or more full time employees beginning in 2015 and for employers with 50 to 99 full time employees in 2016 . Please note that when I use the term full time employees this means employees who work 30 + hours per week and also includes what are referred to as full time equivalent employees -LRB- FTEs -RRB- . FTEs are part time employees whose work hours are totaled up according to IRS approved calculations that are then translated into some number of full time employees to be added to the employer 's regular full time employee count to arrive at a total employment figure that may determine whether an employer is subject to the employer mandate provisions of the Affordable Care Act or is eligible to participate in the SHOP -LRB- small business group insurance -RRB- offering -LRB- s -RRB- in the government health insurance marketplaces . Totally simple , right ? Any business owner would be well advised to seek out a knowledgeable health insurance broker/consultant to assist them is making these determinations and explaining the record keeling , tracking and reporting requirements the employer may be subject to under the Affordable Care Act . Getting this stuff wrong could have serious tax implications for the employer . If I can be of any assistance to you in this matter please feel free to contact me as I am a Chartered Benefit Consultant .
Life insurance can cover death in one of two ways : 1 -RRB- Full coverage 2 -RRB- AD&D Full coverage means that the life insurance policy will pay out a death benefit regardless of whether death occurs by illness -LRB- including old age & natural causes -RRB- or injury . This is the most common type of life insurance that is purchased because a person is much more likely to die due to illness than they are by an injury -LRB- e.g. car accident or a plane crash -RRB- . AD&D is short for Accidental Death & Dismemberment . This kind of life insurance , while typically cheaper than full coverage , only pays out a death benefit if death occurs due to injury -LRB- the types of injuries that are covered may be outlined in the plan as opposed to general language -RRB- . Given that the average person is much more likely to die due to illness than they are from injuries , full coverage is a much more desired option for people . If a person dies by illness and has an AD&D policy , this coverage will not pay out a death benefit . It 's important to consult with an experienced life insurance broker to compare your options and help you determine the type , amount , and length of coverage that will be most suitable to your needs and budget and which carrier can offer that coverage at the lowest rates . I hope the information is helpful - please feel free to contact me for help and if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
A Personal Auto Policy -LRB- PAP -RRB- generally comes with five coverages included in the premium . 1 . Auto Liability ... protects you from claims other people make against you arising from auto accidents 2 . Uninsured/Underinsured Motorists Liability -LRB- UIM -RRB- ... protects you for claims you make against other drivers who do not have insurance or do not have enough insurance 3 . Medical Payments ... pays money to doctors and hospitals for your medical expenses arising out of auto accidents 4 . Collision ... pays for damage to your car arising out of auto accidents where you collide with another car or object , like a tree . 5 . Comprehensive ... pays for damage to your car arising out accidents that are other than collision , for example , flood , fire and theft . When you ask , `` How Much Auto Insurance Do I Need ? '' , I 'm assuming you mean # 1 , Auto Liability so I 'll limit my answer to that coverage . In subsequent postings , I 'll answer how much you need for the other coverages . So , how much Auto Liability Insurance do you need ? It depends . If you just want to get on the road and be legal about it , in New Jersey , the minimum limit of insurance is $ 35,000 for each accident . You are also required to purchase Uninsured/Underinsured Motorists Liability and Medical Payments and they also have minimum limit requirements . Other states have similar minimum limit requirements and they are spelled out at each state 's insurance department website . Minimum limit policies will get you on the road , but they are not a smart use of your dollars . Consider an auto accident where you strike a Lawyer 's Mercedes ... his new Mercedes . Think $ 35,000 will take care of everything ? I would n't bet on it . And if $ 35,000 is not enough , you 'll pay personally for a long time . Now , if your primary goal is adequate protection for you , your family and your assets , you need to take a step back . Liability claims against you arising out of the use of an auto is one area you should be concerned about . You should also be concerned about liability claims arising out of owning a home , operating a boat or a motorcycle or an RV . Liability claims can also arise from owning vacation property . You can trigger a claim . Your spouse can trigger a claim and your children can trigger a claim . Considering all the people in your life who can trigger a claim and all the ways they can do it , How much is enough liability insurance ? How much should you buy ? Answer : I do n't know . But I do know EVERY smart insurance consumer , concerned about `` how much insurance is enough ? '' should purchase a $ 1 million Personal Umbrella Policy . A Personal Umbrella Policy is a secondary policy . Your auto policy , homeowner policy , boat policy , and so on are all primary policies . Each primary policy has its own limit of insurance . In the event of an accident -LRB- in the home , in the car or on the water -RRB- , you have a primary policy to protect you . If the amount of primary insurance is not enough to pay a claim , the Personal Umbrella policy adds a million dollar cushion . Is a Personal Umbrella policy expensive ? No . A million dollar umbrella GENERALLY starts around $ 125 . That 's $ 125 for $ 1,000,000 of liability protection you can use over your auto insurance or your homeowner insurance or your boat insurance and so on and so on . If there is a better deal in the insurance business , I 'm not aware of it . Now if you 're sold on the idea that a Personal Umbrella Policy has merit , we need to return to your original question : `` How much Auto Liability Insurance do I need ? '' You need an amount of insurance that satisfies the minimum requirements of the Personal Umbrella Policy . For example , if your Personal Umbrella Policy requires you have a $ 300,000 Personal Auto Liability Limit , that 's what you need to buy for your auto policy . If the requirement is $ 300,000 and you have $ 250,000 , there will be a $ 50,000 gap in the event of a serious claim . Again , for example , you 're responsible for a serious auto accident . It ends up costing $ 600,000 . Your auto policy will pay $ 250,000 , you 'll have to pay $ 50,000 and then the umbrella will pay the remaining $ 300,000 . So you can see , you need to buy the correct amount of auto and home insurance and the correct amount for any other primary policy so you do n't have a gap in coverage . Can you buy a Personal Umbrella Policy with a limit higher than $ 1 million ? You can , but the higher the limit , the greater the scrutiny . I hope I 've answered your question , but if I have n't , feel free to call , fax or email me .
Graded death benefit whole life insurance is permanent coverage that features an alternative structure in the first 2 or 3 years of the policy -LRB- depending on the insurance company -RRB- . The program will feature one of two graded benefit methods . 1 -RRB- Return of premium - if death occurs during the graded period , any premiums paid into the policy is given to the beneficiary . If death occurs under accidental means , then the full benefit is still payable . After the graded period has expired , the full benefit is payable regardless of whether death occurs due to illness or injury . Some carriers may offer interest on your premiums if the insured passes away during the graded period - be sure to review your policy to see if it 's under your policy . The return of premium structure is more commonly seen under graded benefit whole life policies . 2 -RRB- Reduced death benefit - if death occurs during the graded period , the coverage will payout a specific percentage of the death benefit , depending on which year during the graded period death occurs . For example , if death occurs during the first year of the policy , the carrier only pays 30 % or 35 % of the death benefit -LRB- depending on the carrier -RRB- - 70 % or 75 % if death occurs during year 2 . If death occurs under accidental means during the graded period , then the full benefit is payable . After the graded period has expired , the full benefit is payable regardless of whether death occurs by illness or injury . Under final expense policies -LRB- another name for small whole life policies with face amounts of $ 25,000 or less -RRB- , the responses to the health questions determine whether you will qualify for a level benefit -LRB- immediate full coverage -RRB- or a graded benefit . Typically , to qualify for a level benefit , all the health questions have to be answered no . Please note , just because you may not be able to answer all health questions no for one carrier 's program , does n't mean you would n't be able to answer no to all questions for a different carrier . Each insurance company has their own questions that they ask so one carrier may be able to consider a level benefit where another may not . The wording to the questions is critical to pay attention to . If you ca n't qualify for traditional final expense coverage , you always have the option for GUARANTEED ISSUE whole life . These programs do not ask any health questions whatsoever . They will feature the return of premium graded period . When buying any whole life insurance policy , be sure to remember 2 things : 1 -RRB- Do the premiums remain the same for the entire life of the policy ? - Some policies feature banded premium - meaning they go up every 5 years . They may be cheaper up front during the first couple years , but can cost significantly more over the long run . 2 -RRB- What age does the coverage carry you to ? - Some policies will only carry you to age 80 or to age 90 - and if you live beyond that age , your policy automatically terminates . It 's best to set yourself up with something that guarantees the coverage will remain in place for life -LRB- as long as you continue to pay your premiums of course -RRB- . I always suggest consulting with an independent agent who can shop the case for you and compare multiple insurance policies with your medical history to make sure you 're getting the desired coverage at the lowest possible cost . There is no cost to doing so . If you 'd like some help gathering the most accurate quotes and securing the coverage at the lowest cost , please send me an e-mail via the contact me button next to my name with your name and contact information to reach you at . I hope the information is helpful - thanks very much .
You can go about securing coverage in one of two ways for this type of medical history . A route with no medical questions would be issued under a guaranteed-issue , graded benefit whole life insurance policy -LRB- 2-year waiting period for full coverage to start - accident only coverage in years 1 and 2 -RRB- . The maximum amount of coverage you can secure under one of these programs is between $ 20,000 - $ 25,000 . Please note , most guaranteed-issue life insurance policy have a minimum age requirement of 45 or 50 years old and a maximum age allowance of 80 or 85 years old . The 2nd route is going to be the most advantageous If you 're looking for more coverage than that , but you would need to go through full underwriting . These programs would allow you to secure full coverage from day 1 of the policy -LRB- no waiting period under a graded benefit -RRB- . The specific details regarding the stroke history -LRB- e.g. was there any paralysis and where , were there any lingering effects , are you still taking medications to treat lingering effects as a result of the stroke , etc. -RRB- as well as the diabetes history . For the diabetes history , the most recent A1C reading , when was it diagnosed , how is it being treated , etc. will affect the risk classification a carrier can/will offer -LRB- this determines the rates -LRB- cost -RRB- for the coverage , if approved -RRB- . You will need to shop the case among multiple companies to see which carriers can consider coverage at what risk class . Every company has their own underwriting guidelines so some companies may be able to work with the medical history where others may not - for this , I highly recommend shopping the case first before applying for ANY coverage because throwing mud against the wall to see what sticks -LRB- applying to multiple companies -RRB- can work against you as it can become a red flag to insurance companies when they see declines in the MIB -LRB- Medical Information Bureau -RRB- records . An independent insurance broker such as myself can do this for you . My group is licensed in over 35 states and with over 50 insurance companies and we charge no fees to our clients for our services . We can help you with the entire process from start to finish . If you 'd like assistance in buying a life insurance policy , please send me a message and we will help you shop the case so you can secure the desired coverage at the lowest possible cost - my contact information is provided on my profile . I hope the information is helpful - thanks very much for your question .
You can go about securing coverage in one of two ways for this type of medical condition . A route with no medical questions would be issued under a guaranteed-issue , graded benefit whole life insurance policy -LRB- 2-year waiting period for full coverage to start - accident only coverage in years 1 and 2 -RRB- . The maximum amount of coverage you can secure under one of these programs is between $ 20,000 - $ 25,000 . Please note , most guaranteed-issue life insurance policy have a minimum age requirement of 45 or 50 years old . The 2nd route is going to be the most advantageous If you 're looking for more coverage than that , but you would need to go through full underwriting . These programs would allow you to secure full coverage from day 1 of the policy -LRB- no waiting period under a graded benefit -RRB- . The specific results of the liver enzyme tests for the conditions , the medications used to treat the condition , alcohol consumption frequency , how long you 've had the condition , and other factors contribute to the risk classification a carrier can offer -LRB- this determines the rates -LRB- cost -RRB- for the coverage , if approved -RRB- . Because there is a presence of hepatitis with cirrhosis of the liver , you will need to shop the case among multiple companies to see which carriers can consider coverage at what risk class . Every company has their own underwriting guidelines so some companies may be able to work with the medical history where others may not - for this , I highly recommend shopping the case first before applying for ANY coverage because throwing mud against the wall to see what sticks -LRB- applying to multiple companies -RRB- can work against you as it can become a red flag to insurance companies when they see declines in the MIB -LRB- Medical Information Bureau -RRB- records . An independent insurance broker such as myself can do this for you . My group is licensed in over 35 states and with over 50 insurance companies and we charge no fees to our clients for our services . We can help you with the entire process from start to finish . If you 'd like assistance in buying a life insurance policy , please send me a message and we will help you shop the case so you can secure the desired coverage at the lowest possible cost - my contact information is provided on my profile . I hope the information is helpful - thanks very much for your question .
Saving for retirement as a 30 year old you have an advantage over a 50 year old you have time . First thing to do is start saving regularly now . You should take advantage of tax deferral plans to get the full effect of compound growth . In Canada that mean Registered Retirement Savings Plans -LRB- RRSPs -RRB- and Tax-Free Saving Accounts -LRB- TFSAs -RRB- . If you have an employer that will contribute match your contributions take advantage - that is free money . Financial or retirement planner can help you determine what your specific portfolio should look like , depending on your risk tolerance and time horizon . Financial planning , Retirement planning and Estate planning are all integrated . What you do with one often affects the other . The first step in planning for a Good Retirement is to start saving regularly as early as you can . The challenge often is that retirement seems so far away that it is easy to put off . Now that you have started saving , what are you saving for ? Deciding what a successful retirement means to you can be quite challenging . What do you want to do for the rest of your life ? A lifestyle planner can help . There is some information on this topic under retirement on my website www.jpw.ca if you are interested . Now that you have a basic idea of what your successful retirement means , the numbers can be `` crunched '' . Your retirement or financial planner can fine tune your retirement planning to make what you want to happen , happen . What particular investment vehicles you should use , depends on your individual situation . Be sure to take advantage of retirement plans that are tax deferred -LRB- in Canada , RRSPs and TFSAs -RRB- . Tax deferral allows you to get the full effect of compound growth . If you have further questions , or feel that I could be of assistance , please do not hesitate to contact me .
Direct auto insurance is not a type of auto insurance , but a way to buy or method of selling auto insurance . Some auto insurance companies , like USAA & Amica , do not have insurance agents representing them , and sell auto insurance -LRB- and other types of insurance -RRB- direct to the public only . Auto insurance companies selling direct to the public staff call centers with licensed insurance representatives employed by the company , to sell and service the company 's insurance products . Although I think most people benefit from receiving the personal service of an agent , accountable to the customer for providing customer service , advice , and assistance , both USAA & Amica have excellent reputations for claims & customer service . Companies like GEICO & Progressive are known for selling direct to the public , though GEICO has agents available in many large metropolitan areas , and Progressive also sells through independent insurance agents , though the products and rates will be different than buying direct . When you call a company selling direct for an auto insurance quote , you speak with a company employee licensed to sell insurance , working from a call center , most likely out-of state -LRB- but not outside of the USA -RRB- . If you buy the auto insurance policy , there is no one person at the company responsible for your account , as there would be , if you purchased a policy through an agent . So , a company employee sells you the auto insurance policy , but if you call back with a question , or to make a policy change liking adding or removing a car , whichever employee answering the phone will help you , much like you receive help when you call your cable TV company . GEICO & Progressive seem to compete on price more than other companies , but buying direct does not always mean a better price . Selling direct mean no agent commissions to pay , but selling direct has other costs , like more marketing costs for TV & media ads , employee salaries and benefits . A wise auto insurance shopper decides on the coverage they need , then check the rates of all the major auto insurance companies in their state , regardless of whether the company sells direct , through their own local agents , or through independent insurance agents .
Full coverage on auto insurance covers the physical damage done to YOUR vehicle . Liability coverage only will cover claims brought against you in an accident . `` Full coverage '' has two parts , comprehensive coverage -LRB- if a tree falls on your car , or a hail storm does damage to your vehicle , basically most occurrences when you are not in the vehicle -RRB- , and collision coverage , which covers the physical damage done to your vehicle in an accident . You can choose to get comprehensive only , or comprehensive and collision , but not collision without comprehensive . Note : the deductibles for each can be different . You will typically save more money by raising your collision deductible compared to raising your comprehensive deductible .
There was a time when it was much less but in many cases the auto were not rated correctly for the business use and also at that time the liability did not extend to other autos driven . Now days it cost more but there is a good reason for that if you are having a commercial auto policy your limits usually are much higher more like $ 1 million in liability limits or higher . Most personal auto policies do not have that high of limits . Now you can have a personal auto with Business use on it which will make your personal auto a little more expensive But it really depends on the type of business and the use . If you have your business name pained on your personal auto then this would not be a good fit for a personal auto policy . Each carrier has VERY specific guideline just like a pizza delivery driver needs a commercial auto policy most carriers on a personal auto would not cover you if you were doing that type of work and had personal auto coverage only . Talk to your agent and make sure that you are covered correctly each carrier and state has it 's own rules and rates make sure yours is rated as it should be .
Full coverage really is not the best choice for describing the coverage 's that are included with that term . What makes a policy have full coverage is that the insurance will pay for your loss minus the deductible you choose . Many people choose higher deductibles for comprehensive and collision of $ 1000 the after that amount you pay they pay the rest . In our area here in Montana most of the time there is only about 3.00 a month difference between a 100.00 deductible and 500.00 deductible it is much easier to come up with the 100 rather then 500 discuss your options with your local agent . Full coverage is meant to help you recover the cost if in the event of a loss less your deductible .
Full coverage is always a dangerous term . Most people consider full coverage as having comprehensive a collision coverage 's on their vehicle . However this would leave out medical , rental reimbursement , towing and possible more options . With that said the coverage is not actually full . With this question being a blanket question it is actually impossible to answer without a series of questions being asked first such as location , age of operator , marital status , driving history and driving record not to mention type of car . I highly suggest you contact a local agent who can quote you multiple companies to find you the best coverage 's and rates to fit your needs .
end question
start question
auto-insurance
Can I Get Out Of State Car Insurance ?
If you live in one state and are fortunate enough to also own a vacation home in another , and you choose to have a car registered in state for your use while you are there , then it is possible , if not required that you have a car insurance policy in that state . Most if not all states require car insurance in order to register a car for use on public access roads and highways and in most cases , that insurance must be obtained in the state in which the car is registered . Honestly that is the only circumstance I can think of where you may have insurance on a car from another state which is not where you primarily reside .
Based on my education and experience so far in the industry , I would say no . Auto insurance is based on your garaging zip code therefor you could only purchase insurance from a carrier that is licensed within your state . Now if you are asking if you can purchase auto insurance from a carrier that is not physically located within your state then the answer would be yea , a carrier could be physically located outside of your state but still be licensed to sell insurance within your state .
Gap insurance is a coverage that is offered either on your auto policy or through the auto finance company as an option -LRB- or requirement -RRB- on your loan . Basically , what it does is provide you a clean slate if you total a car with a loan on it . Lets look at an example : Erica buys a 2009 Volkswagon Jetta from a used car shop for $ 14,000 . The used car value could be 12,500 depending on what form you use -LRB- blackbook value , NADA , Kelly Bluebook value , etc. -RRB- The form doesnt matter here other than answering the question of is this car worth less than the loan I have on it ? Erica is required to have other-than-collision coverage -LRB- often called comprehensive coverage , which is a misnomer -RRB- and collision coverage as a stipulation for the loan she is getting with the bank or finance company . That coverage states that it will repair her car for specific reasons in the policy OR pay her the actual cash value of the car if it costs less than the repairs it would take to make the car drivable . Often a state variation will come here saying a car can not be repaired if the expenses are 70 % or more of the value of the car - the insurance company needs to pay the policyholder the actual cash value of the car instead . If you look closely at your auto policy , you also have a coverage to protect yourself from liability caused by you damaging the property of others . This is often referred to as property damage liability or the third number in your limits -LRB- such as 100/300/100 limits -RRB- . It states that it will repair the damage caused by your actions that you are held responsible for OR pay the actual cash value of that item if less than the cost of repairs . This is important , so remember it . So what does this mean for Erica , knowing this information ? Lets say Erica has had her Volkswagon Jetta for 3 years and diligently made payments on her car without missing a payment date . The loan is now $ 9,000 after interest . The value of the car has depreciated down to $ 7600 because of the age , mileage , and usage of the car . Technically , Erica is paying $ 1400 more on the car than what it is worth -LRB- taking interest out of the equation to make it easier . -RRB- Lets say at this 3 year mark , Erica gets into an accident and the car is beyond repair . It doesnt matter if she causes the accident or if someone else was at fault , because both property damage -LRB- what the other party uses to fix Ericas car if they caused the accident -RRB- and collision coverage -LRB- the coverage used to fix Ericas car if she caused the accident -RRB- use actual cash value to determine how much repairs will be made and how much money they will pay Erica . Both coverages will give Erica $ 7600 for her car . However , since Erica has a lien on the car because she is financing it , that money actually goes to the FINANCE COMPANY and Erica wont see a penny of it . The finance company will apply that $ 7600 to her loan , meaning there is a $ 1400 balance left she is responsible for . The bank isnt a charity so they will still tell Erica she has to pay it because it is still in her contract and the bank lost $ 1400 on a car that no longer exists . Erica still has to pay $ 1400 on a car she doesnt even have , and still has to buy a new car . Thats a bad place to be in life , wouldnt you say ? Even worse , Erica might still have to make payments even if the accident wasnt her fault ! She gets all of the blame of the finance company but caused none of the problems ! If Erica had gap insurance , it would kick in at this point and relive Erica of the extra $ 1400 she would be responsible for . If Erica was ahead of her loan and the cash value of the car was more than the loan , she would get any money paid above the loan amount -LRB- thus satisfying her finance company as well -RRB- and the gap insurance would not take effect . Either way , Erica isnt paying money any more on her car that is non-functional . Here are some common stipulations found in gap insurance - check with your loan company to see if they apply to you : Gap insurance is there to pay for the loan on the car and THATS IT ! If you increase the loan to pay for any extras you are typically not going to get that part of the loan covered and will still have to pay . This includes things like the extended warranty , credit life insurance in case you die before the loan is paid off , and things like that . It might even say the gap insurance isnt paid for either and you will have to pay for that . Its definitely worth looking into . Gap insurance also says that it wont take effect if you are behind on your payments on a certain amount , pay more because the car is worth less from overuse or modifications , and wont cover intentional damage to the car . Basically , its not there to handle your loan if you are financially strapped and can not handle the payments anymore and want to get rid of the car . Another option in place of gap insurance is to get the repair/replacement coverage for your auto policy . This says that instead of getting the cash value of a car beyond repair , you get a replacement car instead -LRB- even if it costs more than the value of the car . -RRB- You would still have the loan but youd have a car as well . This coverage might not be available and it often is only available for cars less than 1-5 years old and only if you are the original owner . Talk to your agent to see if you qualify . Gap coverage is an excellent coverage to get , and is worth the investment . Used cars typically drop in value faster than the loan does from payments , and you dont want to be stuck paying on a car you dont even have anymore .
In general , no , not for physical damage to the car . To insure property you need to have an insurable interest in the property you 're protecting . In other words , you have to have something at risk . If you do n't own it , what do you have at risk ? This why titling is so important . You could , theoretically , put insurance on a car you do n't own and not tell the insurance company that it 's not titled to you . Hopefully , your insurance agent is experienced and professional enough to ask who the car is titled to , but it does n't always happen . So , say you 've insured this car you do n't own and you get into an accident . You submit your claim to your insurance company to get your car repaired . One of the first questions a claims adjuster will ask is `` who is the car titled to ? '' . If the answer is n't you , you 've got a problem . The insurance company will only pay the registered owner of the car . They are the only party that has a loss . The only exception to this is if the car is financed or leased . In this case , the finance company will require , as part of the contract , to be listed as a loss payee . This entitles them to collect on the damage to that car . That 's how it applies to physical damage . For liability or injury , it 's different . Here , the insurance follows the insured . You could , theoretically , get liability insurance without owning the car you 're driving . Again , your agent will ask who owns the car , and they 'll believe what you tell them . If a claim happens for injury or liability , they will protect you , the insured . I do n't know why you 'd want to insure a car you do n't own , but I have an idea . It could be that a friend or relative is loaning you a car because you do n't have one of your own or it could be that a child , or someone else in your household owns this car but does n't want to , or ca n't , insure it themselves because they 're young and it 's expensive , or they have such a bad driving record they just plain ca n't get insurance . Either way , do n't get yourself in a situation where you have to lie to your insurance company or agent . If something happens , the truth will come out and you may not get anything out of it anyway . Be smart . Find an agent you can trust and be truthful with him/her . They 'll tell you the right way to do it so that you do n't put yourself or your family at risk .
Not sure where this question is going but I 'll do my best . Insurance without a license is a possibility but not a certainty . It depends on your state and the companies that are available there . Most states require certain mandatory coverages to legally drive a car . You can not get these coverages without a valid license . However , you may be able to get physical damage coverage for a car you own , even if you do n't have a license . If you ca n't find out from your state 's website , call a local agent and ask . Some companies will write a comprehensive only policy that does not provide mandatory coverages to legally drive a car . If this is available , be aware that they will not provide a certificate of insurance . It will cover damage to the car ONLY with a deductible applied . They will also , most likely , require photos to verify that there is no existing damage to the car . I do n't know if this answered your question or not . If the question is about getting liability coverage without a license , I can be pretty confident in saying no . Prab , i believe , brings up a different view of the question . I approached it from the view that you 're not eligible for a license because of past violations . If you are eligible for a license and just do n't have one , such as moving to the US and you just have n't gotten a US license , then he 's correct . We will write the insurance with the requirement that you get a valid Michigan license within 30 days .
I would like to add my two cents to this question , as Im not sure a couple of situations have been covered . But the question is Can I insure a car I dont own . If you own and insure a car , your own policy should extend your coverage to any car you are driving -LRB- borrowed , temporary substitute or short-term rental -RRB- as long as it is not another car you own or regularly use . In that sense , your policy then insures you driving a car you dont own . If you dont own a car but often drive cars you dont own and want to make sure you are adequately covered , you should be able to purchase a form of Drive Other Car coverage . Its common to see this coverage on business auto policies covering the business owner and family members when the business owner doesnt own a personal car but is provided vehicles by the company . Here again you are in a sense insuring a car you dont own . In my practice , I like to make sure every client has access to an automobile insuring agreement , as a named insured on a policy covering an owned car , as a spouse or family member residing in the household or some form of Drive Other Car coverage . I like to see adequate limits , comprehensive and collision and appropriate uninsured/underinsured coverage . No responsible adult should be without some form of auto insurance coverage ; as an owner , operator , passenger or pedestrian .
If you live in one state and are fortunate enough to also own a vacation home in another , and you choose to have a car registered in state for your use while you are there , then it is possible , if not required that you have a car insurance policy in that state . Most if not all states require car insurance in order to register a car for use on public access roads and highways and in most cases , that insurance must be obtained in the state in which the car is registered . Honestly that is the only circumstance I can think of where you may have insurance on a car from another state which is not where you primarily reside .
This is a complicated question and really depends upon the insurance laws of your state . No-Fault States : if you live in a no-fault state then you could potentially leave your car in the street without insurance ONLY IF your car is parked in a legal zone and in a safe manner . What I mean by this is you do not want your parked car to be at risk for any liability in the case of an accident . For example , if you are parked on the street outside your house and it is within a couple of inches of the curb and no where near a fire hydrant , then if someone hits your car they will collect against their own insurance and you will not be liable if they sustain any severe physical injuries . However , if your car is in an illegal parking zone or you parked far from the curb , then the person who struck your auto might have cause for a liability suit against you . As a word of caution , just remember that you can get sued regardless of fault and you will have to defend the case until it is dismissed for lack of liability . This means you will still have to pay for an attorney , so it is better to have insurance . Tort-State : you need insurance because they person who hits your parked car will sue you to reclaim collision damages . Please note this is a very brief answer and there are other possible scenarios in both no-fault states and tort-states that can lead to you being sued for having your parked car in the street . I hope this helps .
This is important because rates and coverages vary from State to State . Each State decides its own car insurance requirements individually . If you get pulled over by the police and you do not have the right State coverages policy for that State you could receive a big fine . You may not have to buy coverage for that State if Let 's say you take your car to a new state for 2 or 3 month for a job assignment you might be fine keeping your home States insurance coverage . In any case , you should always check if using an out-of-State policy , check with your insurer to make sure its allowed and that you have enough protection for where youre headed for that State . Some insurance companies say it 's okay if youre only going to be in the non home State for no more than 60 days , still check to make sure .
Medical coverage covers anyone getting into your car , getting out of your car or in the car if you are involved in an accident and they are hurt . For example , a person is getting out of your car and falls and breaks an arm ; a person hand is caught in a car door and requires medical treatment . The most common however is when you are involved in an accident . Anyone in your car is covered up to the medical pay limits on your policy .
How can I minimize the amount I pay for auto insurance ? There are two sides to the insurance premium question . The first side is the dollars going to the insurance company . The other side is the dollars coming from the insurance company when you have a claim . The most expensive insurance policy is one that does not adequately protect you when you have a claim . If you have low liability limits and do several hundred thousand s of dollars in damage you might find your assets and income making up the difference when you have a claim and that could be devastating . When you look at the premium for a recent model car you will discover that the pricing is fairly evenly split between liability coverage and physical damage coverage . In a very general way this means that in an accident you can expect your car to receive as much damage as the other car . Different cars have different repair costs . These costs are determined by taking the results of actual claims and tracking the costs . Some cars have technology that makes them expensive to repair . Others have design features that make them expensive to repair . The safety features on some cars reduce the cost of repair . A client was making a search for a car based upon the total cost of operation . It was very interesting as we compared different makes and models . We were using the same approximate year so the comparison was just on the manufacturer and the different models being considered . The prices varied more than I would have anticipated . It seemed that the more curb appeal the car had , the more likely it was to be a repair shop nightmare . As a car ages its potential repair costs start to come close to its actual cash value . While the price for the physical damage insurance also starts to reduce there might well be a time when you consider the potential loss of your car to be negligible and then you should remove physical damage coverage . I have been startled by people who maintain physical damage on cars approaching 20 years of service . There is a sentimental attachment that is extremely important . Liability premiums also vary somewhat with the horsepower and weight of the vehicle . Sporty , high powered cars can do a lot of damage and statistically are more frequently involved in accidents than low powered plain models . I am often asked about whether or not a specific model is being treated as a sports car . The customer wants to argue the merits of the car . The fact is that the car has been rated on its own claims history and the rate is determined , not by logic , but by experience . It helps to understand the rating system for liability insurance . The year make and model are the starting point as some vehicles are more frequently involved in accidents than others . The second is the driving record and claims history of the principle operator and other drivers in the household . The companies weigh these driving records quite closely . The third factor , in California , is the number of miles the vehicle is used . Obviously every mile has a component of risk exposure so a vehicle being used 40,000 miles a year has a greater exposure to claim than one only being operated 400 miles a year . The next factor is where you live . Rural areas have fewer accidents than urban and some urban areas are worse than others . These factors are considered in determining a rate . Dont forget that the most expensive insurance is the policy that doesnt meet your needs when you have a claim .
I am not a representative of State Farm as I am an independent agent . However , with that being said , State Farm can OFFER the ability to cover hail damage . Every insurance company that can protect your personal auto is able to provide coverage for hail damage . You are looking for a coverage called Other-than-collision -LRB- OTC -RRB- or sometimes called comprehensive coverage . This coverage is often called all-risk -LRB- a misnomer -RRB- or open-peril coverage . What the heck does that mean ? It means that comprehensive covers EVERYTHING to your auto UNLESS it says it will not cover it . This is actually very robust as a coverage because its impossible to list everything that can happen to a car for exclusions , so you can have coverage for the random things that happen to your car . If you look at your policy for OTC , nowhere does it mention that it will exclude -LRB- not cover -RRB- hail damage . This is good ; it means you can file a claim for OTC to repair hail damage to your auto . Here are a few things to understand about OTC with regards to hail damage : You have to pay your deductible for the repairs . Most often , this means that the insurance company will pay you all the money to get the car fixed EXCEPT for your deductible , which you then pay to the repair company that fixed you car . So if $ 3,000 worth of repairs was needed to fix your car from hail damage , and you have a $ 500 deductible , then the insurance company will give you $ 2500 -LRB- $ 3,000 - $ 500 deductible -RRB- so you can pay your $ 3,000 repair bill . The claim settlement might happen in another way , but the logic is still the same . Your OTC will pay the actual cash value of the car if the repairs are over a certain threshold -LRB- which is determined individually for each car -RRB- to make the car usable again . The company can literally scrap the car and pay you for it instead of repairing the hail damage . Keep this in mind for when determining if you want to file a claim as some cars arent worth much but could be in EXCELLENT condition for driving . You dont want to lose your car because you filed a claim for cosmetic damage , or keep the car and get a salvage title . Talk to your agent to make sure you have OTC . Make sure that the deductible is an amount you can afford to pay in a reasonable amount of time . Its no good to have a $ 500 , $ 1000 , or $ 2,000 deductible for OTC if you can not get the money or put yourself in a poor financial position for 30 + days because of it . Sometimes paying the extra $ 5-10 per month for a lower deductible makes sense in households strapped for cash .
There are several way that you can do this . There are Many carries that will insure you even if you do not have a license . Always check your state laws . There are carriers that understand that you may need a Sr22 to get your license and to do this you must have insurance so you purchase the insurance with out a license then after you get your license in place because you got the SR22 contact your agent it should lower your rates . You DO NOT have to own a car to get insurance . You can get in some states what is called a Non owned policy and also some states have what is called a broadform and this covers any car you drive I Highly suggest that you contact a reputable independent insurance agent . They should be able to guide you through the proper laws and rules for your state .
Only if you and your significant other are legally married . So , if it is a male/female relationship you are inquiring about then things are pretty straightforward from the marriage standpoint . If it is a same sex relationship you are inquiring about then things get more complicated . Same sex marriage is an issue that is still being addressed on a state by state basis . If your home state does not recognize same sex marriage and your employer is domiciled -LRB- incorporated in , established in -RRB- in such a state then you ca n't get married in that state anyways and an out-of-state marriage in a state that does recognize same sex marriage is not recognized in your home state . There is a tremendous amount of litigation going on in the Federal courts over this issue which makes it hard to be totally definitive when addressing this question . To make things even more interesting , you might work at a branch location of a company domiciled in a state that recognizes same sex marriage while your state of residence still does n't . And your employer 's policy may be to accept same sex spouses as dependents under their group health plan . This can result in the situation where one same sex couple -LRB- you still have to be married but I 've got some neighbors that went out of state to get married in a jurisdiction that does allow for same sex marriage even though our home state currently does not -RRB- may be able to take advantage of their employer 's health coverage while a similar same sex couple across the street who work for employers headquartered in states that do n't recognize same sex marriage ca n't cover their same sex spouse as a dependent . It is an interesting time to be in the employee benefits business .
-- > Normal 0 Renting a car is n't the problem , if you have liability and physical damage insurance on a car that you own that coverage should extend to other cars you might be driving including a short-term rental car . The problem is n't the rental car , it 's the rental agreement you sign and most renters fail to read it . Rental agreements often say you understand and accept the insurance the rental company carries on the car will not apply to you or applies only up to the state minimum . So if you do n't have your own coverage , there wo n't be any -LRB- or very little -RRB- if you have an accident . Most rental agreements require you to be responsible for any damage to the car even if it is not your fault . Knowingly or unknowingly , you assume a responsibility you normally do not have . If the rental car is damaged , the agreements usually say you agree to pay not only for the repair or replacement of the car but also the loss of rental revenue the company loses while the car is being repaired and any administrative costs the rental company incurs as a result of that damage . Your car insurance will not cover that . You also commonly agree to reimburse the rental company for any legal expenses or judgments they are required to pay . Your insurance policy may not cover that . Some of these risk assumptions may covered by the insurance you might have on your own car but many may not and that is where the problem lies . They have your credit card and you have given them permission to add these charges to your credit or debit card . Although you often hear your own insurance covers you when you rent a car that may only be a partial answer . Your insurance may cover some of the rental car expenses but not all of them . Make sure you understand what those expenses are , which ones your own auto insurance or personal umbrella covers you for and which ones you will be required to pay out of your own pocket . If these risks are more than you are comfortable with , the only other alternatives are to purchase the very expensive `` Damage Waiver '' coverage from the rental car company or simply do n't rent the car .
Renting a car is n't the problem , if you have insurance covering a car that you own , often the coverage on that car will extend to other cars you might be driving including a short term rental car . The problem is n't the rental car , it 's the rental agreement you sign and most often fail to read . These agreements often will say you understand the insurance the rental company carries on the car will not apply to you or in some cases it applies only up to the state minimum . So if you do n't have your own coverage , there wo n't be any if you have an accident . Many of these agreements require you to be responsible for any damage to the car even if it is not your fault . Knowingly or unknowingly , you assume a responsibility you normally do not have . If the rental car is damaged , the agreements usually say you agree to pay not only for the repair or replacement of the car but also the loss of rental revenue the company loses while the car is being repaired and any administrative costs the rental company incurs as a result of that damage . You also commonly agree to reimburse the rental company for any legal expenses or judgements they are required to pay . You assume all the risks , they assume none . Some of these assumptions may covered by the insurance you might have on your own car but many may not and that is where the problem lies . They have your credit card and you give them permission to add these charges to your card . It may not be necessary to purchase insurance when you rent a car , but be aware of what you are agreeing to . Make sure you accept those potential risks , are covered for them by your own auto insurance or personal umbrella , are willing to pay those hefty waiver charges or simply do n't rent the car .
If you 're auto insurance is just too expensive for you to afford , there are some things you can do to help ease that burden . You may not like some of my advice , but it 's the right advice . A very large part of your insurance premium is the physical damage to the car itself . Raising deductibles will lower your premiums somewhat . Ask yourself if you really need to cover the physical damage at all . If it 's an older car and you own it outright , this could be an option . Before you do this , however , understand that , if your car is damaged , the insurance company will not pay to fix it . One thing not to do is to lower your bodily injury liability limits . You wo n't save very much and you 'll be putting everything you own at risk , including your income . Here 's the advice you may not like : Perhaps you have too nice a car for your budget . If that 's the case , get a less expensive car . Then , when your finances -LRB- or your driving record -RRB- allow , you can always get a nicer car . Talk to an agent you can trust . They can give you advice on these questions as well as others . It also helps if you check rates on a car before you buy it . Everyone loves getting a new car . You just do n't want an unpleasant surprise when your insurance bill comes .
The insurance company you currently have your auto insurance with may extend coverage to a rental car . If so you do have the option of waiving the coverage offered by the rental car agency . I recommend you contact your agent to verify if your coverage applies to a rental car since not all polices will extend to rental cars . Also depending on the state you are in there are advantages of purchasing the rental cars insurance . For example if you have a solo car accident the damage will be picked up by the rental car agency and not your own insurance carrier thereby avoiding any potential points that may apply . But again , I strongly suggest you contact your agent if you are not sure that your current insurance carrier will extend coverage to a rental car .
-- > Normal 0 I can suggest of a number of reasons . First , if I own a car and while it is being used it hurts someone or damages their property , I feel one has a moral obligation to reimburse them for their injuries or damage . Moral obligations would seem to be one of the cornerstones of any society . Since most people dont have a pile of cash hanging around to reimburse people who they hurt , auto insurance is a convenient efficient mechanism that helps people do that . For a relatively small amount of money , an insurance company will agree to reimburse someone should my car injure them . Depending on my moral compass , that limit could be anywhere from a few thousand to several hundred thousand dollars . Of course , I also might realize when driving my car someone could hurt me or passengers in my car . So , I might like to have the same kind of agreement with the insurance company , pay me if someone hurts me and doesnt have any insurance or not enough to make me whole again . Then of course , if I run into someone or something with my car and damage it , it would be nice not to have to come up with a large sum of money to fix or replace it . So it makes sense to include that in the deal I make with the insurance company . Most states have enacted laws , which say if you want to drive your car on our highways , you have to agree to be responsible for any damage you cause . To back up that promise , you have to prove you are financially able to do that . You can either put up a substantial sum of money in the form of a bond or an insurance company will do that for you for a price . In a nutshell , these are the basic reasons to consider buying insurance . And if you want to consider the alternatives , walking , driving a car only around your own yard or coming up with a large sum of cash , I think you will find insurance a very attractive alternative .
A Personal Auto Policy -LRB- PAP -RRB- generally comes with five coverages included in the premium . 1 . Auto Liability ... protects you from claims other people make against you arising from auto accidents 2 . Uninsured/Underinsured Motorists Liability -LRB- UIM -RRB- ... protects you for claims you make against other drivers who do not have insurance or do not have enough insurance 3 . Medical Payments ... pays money to doctors and hospitals for your medical expenses arising out of auto accidents 4 . Collision ... pays for damage to your car arising out of auto accidents where you collide with another car or object , like a tree . 5 . Comprehensive ... pays for damage to your car arising out accidents that are other than collision , for example , flood , fire and theft . When you ask , `` How Much Auto Insurance Do I Need ? '' , I 'm assuming you mean # 1 , Auto Liability so I 'll limit my answer to that coverage . In subsequent postings , I 'll answer how much you need for the other coverages . So , how much Auto Liability Insurance do you need ? It depends . If you just want to get on the road and be legal about it , in New Jersey , the minimum limit of insurance is $ 35,000 for each accident . You are also required to purchase Uninsured/Underinsured Motorists Liability and Medical Payments and they also have minimum limit requirements . Other states have similar minimum limit requirements and they are spelled out at each state 's insurance department website . Minimum limit policies will get you on the road , but they are not a smart use of your dollars . Consider an auto accident where you strike a Lawyer 's Mercedes ... his new Mercedes . Think $ 35,000 will take care of everything ? I would n't bet on it . And if $ 35,000 is not enough , you 'll pay personally for a long time . Now , if your primary goal is adequate protection for you , your family and your assets , you need to take a step back . Liability claims against you arising out of the use of an auto is one area you should be concerned about . You should also be concerned about liability claims arising out of owning a home , operating a boat or a motorcycle or an RV . Liability claims can also arise from owning vacation property . You can trigger a claim . Your spouse can trigger a claim and your children can trigger a claim . Considering all the people in your life who can trigger a claim and all the ways they can do it , How much is enough liability insurance ? How much should you buy ? Answer : I do n't know . But I do know EVERY smart insurance consumer , concerned about `` how much insurance is enough ? '' should purchase a $ 1 million Personal Umbrella Policy . A Personal Umbrella Policy is a secondary policy . Your auto policy , homeowner policy , boat policy , and so on are all primary policies . Each primary policy has its own limit of insurance . In the event of an accident -LRB- in the home , in the car or on the water -RRB- , you have a primary policy to protect you . If the amount of primary insurance is not enough to pay a claim , the Personal Umbrella policy adds a million dollar cushion . Is a Personal Umbrella policy expensive ? No . A million dollar umbrella GENERALLY starts around $ 125 . That 's $ 125 for $ 1,000,000 of liability protection you can use over your auto insurance or your homeowner insurance or your boat insurance and so on and so on . If there is a better deal in the insurance business , I 'm not aware of it . Now if you 're sold on the idea that a Personal Umbrella Policy has merit , we need to return to your original question : `` How much Auto Liability Insurance do I need ? '' You need an amount of insurance that satisfies the minimum requirements of the Personal Umbrella Policy . For example , if your Personal Umbrella Policy requires you have a $ 300,000 Personal Auto Liability Limit , that 's what you need to buy for your auto policy . If the requirement is $ 300,000 and you have $ 250,000 , there will be a $ 50,000 gap in the event of a serious claim . Again , for example , you 're responsible for a serious auto accident . It ends up costing $ 600,000 . Your auto policy will pay $ 250,000 , you 'll have to pay $ 50,000 and then the umbrella will pay the remaining $ 300,000 . So you can see , you need to buy the correct amount of auto and home insurance and the correct amount for any other primary policy so you do n't have a gap in coverage . Can you buy a Personal Umbrella Policy with a limit higher than $ 1 million ? You can , but the higher the limit , the greater the scrutiny . I hope I 've answered your question , but if I have n't , feel free to call , fax or email me .
end question
start question
life-insurance
What Is The Main Purpose Of Life Insurance ?
The main purpose of life insurance is to protect your family or business from the costs associated with your death . When a funeral causes relatives to have to pool their resources to pay for it , that is a purpose where life insurance could have helped . When a business must be sold to an outside party because a relative can not afford to buy it , that is a purpose where life insurance could have helped . When a family must go on welfare because the breadwinner passed away , that is a purposed where life insurance could have helped .
The main purpose of life insurance is to protect your family or business from the costs associated with your death . When a funeral causes relatives to have to pool their resources to pay for it , that is a purpose where life insurance could have helped . When a business must be sold to an outside party because a relative can not afford to buy it , that is a purpose where life insurance could have helped . When a family must go on welfare because the breadwinner passed away , that is a purposed where life insurance could have helped .
The difference between annuities and life insurance are many . You do n't have to be underwritten for an annuity for one thing , because in the case of annuities you are putting money into the account for the purpose of collecting it back in payments after and during it 's accumulating interest . There are many ways that an annuity may be paid out or `` annuitized '' . There are several types of life insurance so to compare to an annuity would take considerable time and examples . But generally Life insurance is to provide monetary benefit for the beneficiary . While one pays into a life insurance policy over time , and in the case of Whole Life policies they accumulate cash value which may be accessed by the owner during their lifetime , generally the main purpose it to provide a benefit to the survivor -LRB- s -RRB- of the insured .
The main purpose for life insurance is to create a leveraged cash benefit when the insured passes . The proceeds can be used for simple burial , settling an estate , used in a buy/sell agreement among business owners , and many other purposes .
It depends on the need -LRB- not a very direct answer I know ! -RRB- - the reason for this is because everyone has a different purpose for why they 're buying life insurance . There 's no one shoe fits all policy in this industry . What you need to look at first is what you need the coverage for - it 's helpful to discuss this with an independent agent who can walk you through this and help you determine the structure that 's going to be most suitable for you . If you 're only interested in buying coverage to cover a certain debt for a limited time , you may want to look at term insurance - in that type of situation , you may just be throwing excess money away . If you 're buying coverage for estate planning purposes , you would want to look at permanent coverage because you 're planning for the long run and it 's not something you want to be cheap about . With permanent insurance , there 's two main types - Whole Life and Universal Life -LRB- there are sub-categories with in that - e.g. guaranteed universal life , current assumption universal life , indexed universal life , participating whole life , non-participating whole life , and others -RRB- . Permanent life insurance is designed to provide coverage for the rest of the insured 's life and build cash value . Under a guaranteed universal life -LRB- GUL -RRB- program , the policy can be structured to keep premiums level and provide coverage up to a specified age -LRB- e.g. to age 90 , to age 100 , or even up to age 121 -RRB- under the `` dial down '' process . Whole life features level premiums and death benefits and builds cash value at a faster rate -LRB- participating WL policies may pay dividends that can be used to increase the death benefit or decrease the premiums over time - non-participating WL policies do not feature this ability -RRB- - the trade off between this and guaranteed universal life is that to increase the cash value faster , the premiums will be substantially higher -LRB- can often be 2-3x the premiums of GUL programs on many occassions -RRB- . Regardless of the permanent coverage type , the carrier takes back the cash value upon the death of the insured , and pays out the death benefit proceeds . Therefore , GUL policies allow you to maximize your death benefit and minimize your premium dollars that you pay for the coverage . Some agents/brokers/advisors will ALWAYS suggest you buy whole life - others will NEVER suggest buying it . While it 's helpful to shop around , getting too many hands in the cookie jar can create a very confusing situation for the client.Each type of coverage has a benefit for certain situations . You need to trust the agent you 're working with to compare your needs , premium budget , the benefit level , how long you need it for , and other factors , to help you figure out what 's best for you whether that be whole life or another type of coverage .
That is an excellent question ! Each of the two main types of life insurance has a purpose that it was specifically designed for in the way that it protects . In term policies , it 's to provide coverage for a period of time , and to make large amounts relatively cheap . For whole life , it 's to provide coverage that ca n't be outlived , and to provide cash options that are not available in the term policies . The need you have should be matched to the purpose that best fits that need . I hope that helps , thanks for asking !
Home Insurance is a generic term for either Homeowners Insurance -LRB- Owner Occupied -RRB- or Dwelling Fire Insurance -LRB- Tenant Occupied Landlords Policy -RRB- . The primary purpose of a home insurance policy is to pay for the reconstruction of the home in the event of a fire ; in addition to this primary purpose , there are many additional items which are covered against a number of perils listed on the policy form . In order to maintain sufficient coverage to rebuild the home in the event of a total loss , most policies include an inflation guard endorsement ; the main purpose of this endorsement is to increase the coverage slightly each year to keep up with the annual adjustment of building costs inclusive of materials and labor . It is important for a home not to be underinsured ; policies have a built in coinsurance clause which could cause financial hardship to a homeowner in the event there is a large loss and the home is found not to be sufficiently insured ; the coinsurance clause would only provide coverage on a percentage basis equal to the same percentage of insurance purchased against the actual replacement -LRB- reconstruction -RRB- cost of the dwelling . Some companies will allow the inflation guard to be removed by the insured -LRB- by signed request -RRB- ; however , the prior paragraph may explain why this is not the best option for a homeowner . Although the endorsement has no monetary charge -LRB- premium -RRB- , removing it may heavily impact the policy if a loss were to occur in future years . The inflation guard endorsement may increase coverage amounts by 2 - 5 % based on the current year 's costs of construction and an equally small increase in the annual insurance premium ; however , it is commonly to the homeowners ' surprise that insurance premium is adjusted each year by all carriers based on the prior year 's loss experience to the carrier for the aggregate rating zone -LRB- all homes in the area -RRB- . We receive calls each and every year requesting to remove the inflation guard blaming the endorsement for an increase in annual premium ; many times , carriers may have a 5 % increase in a given area and a 2.5 % increase in coverage limits . Insurance carriers are heavily regulated by the Department of Insurance in each State ; they are also carefully audited by rating agencies most commonly by A.M. Best Company who issues Insurance Company Ratings . It is important for insurance companies to offer excellent customer service , excellent and expedient claims service and pay the full replacement value of all claims presented that are covered by the subject policy ; over and above this , the carrier must maintain financial reserves in order to hold their secure position to handle future losses and offer the security that customers expect from an insurance company . If for example , a Homeowners insurance Premium is $ 500 per year , one could imagine that there is n't much profit to be made after the aforementioned responsibilities and performance guarantees . On extraordinary years where insurance companies post great gains , the auditors and Department of Insurance would require a rate reduction since the profit percentages of the carrier are limited and closely regulated by the Government . Although it is n't common , following many years in the property insurance market , we have seen reductions in annual premium following profitable years . The operation of an insurance carrier is n't as simple as issuing a policy and collecting a small premium ; there is so much more to the contract and operation . For those interested , it is worth contacting a Licensed Representative of your present insurance carrier and inquiring to gain a better understanding .
That is a great question ! I believe that life insurance is a must , and while it can be used as part of a retirement plan , I 'm not real big on advising so . Here 's why - The general purpose for a life insurance policy is so that you can transfer wealth , and pay final expenses . Your beneficiary receives the tax free benefits , and your final expenses are not passed onto them . If your main goal is to gut your policy and live off the cash value in it , that defeats the purpose of the wealth transfer . If the idea is to garnish tax free income in retirement , a Roth IRA would be a far better investment vehicle , and its balance can be left to a beneficiary . A smarter way to use your money , though lesser commission for an agent . I hope that helps , thanks for asking !
It depends on many factors , but here are the main factors for price . 1 -RRB- What 's the policy type ? 2 -RRB- What 's the face amount ? 3 -RRB- What 's your gender ? 4 -RRB- What 's your age ? 5 -RRB- What 's your general health like ? 6 -RRB- Are you a tobacco user ? What you should look at are basically two main questions . What does the life insurance cover and how much do I need ? Cost is a factor for a policy , but it 's much more important to get the right policy with the riders you 'll need .
There are many choices of life insurance available to you . The main stream life insurance products are term life , universal life , variable life and whole life . Each one has a specific purpose . Term life insurance is meant to coverage a specific period of time . The common terms are 1-5-10-15-20-25-30-35 years . This means the rate or premium you purchase is guaranteed level for that period of time regardless of change in health , life style or occupation . Term life is commonly used for younger people starting out in life , covering a large debt , life a mortgage on a home or business debt , or covering for a young child 's education . term life insurance allows for the largest face amount for the smallest premium payments . Universal life and variable life are permanent life insurance solutions that build cash value . Typically the premiums are more expensive and the face amounts are less because part of the premium is going into a cash value fund that can be invested with numerous options . The cash value can later be used for retirement , college funds , critical or chronic illness or even to purchase a large asset like a home . The universal and variable options are typically more aggressive with the cash value funds . The last option , whole life insurance , is very similar to the previous universal life insurance options . However , the cash value funds are typically a fixed percentage of growth . Whole life as it 's name suggests is primarily meant to cover you for your entire life . I recommend using an experienced independent life insurance broker with numerous carriers to shop the market and find you the best product at the best price for your unique situation . Good luck .
The main purpose of an Irrevocable Life Insurance Trust -LRB- ILIT -RRB- is to avoid the taxing of life insurance proceeds upon death of the insured . The trust becomes the owner of the life insurance policy alleviating the increased assets of the insured . Often spouses and or children become the trustees . Also , ILIT 's are used as a source of quick cash to pay estate tax bills without increasing the overall size of your estate .
Once the death benefit is paid for a life insurance policy , the policy is no longer in effect , and no longer `` works '' . The death benefit is paid when the insured person dies . That is the main purpose of life insurance , to pay a death benefit when the insured person dies .
The two main types of life insurance are : Term Permanent Term policies are purchased for the death benefit only and do not build up cash . Permanent policies come in many different forms such as whole life , universal life , indexed universal life , and variable universal life . Permanent policies -LRB- sometimes called cash value policies -RRB- provide a death benefit and they also can be used to accumulate cash . The cash build up inside a policy can be accessed tax free as a loan and can be used for any purpose such as supplemental retirement income , college funding , or emergency expenses .
There are rating agencies that make it their whole purpose to show you which life insurance companies are best . They look at different variables , rate the company on those variables , then give the company an overall rating . The four main rating agencies that people turn to are AM Best , Standard & Poor 's , Fitch , and Moody 's . When you go to the About Us section of any life insurance company 's website , they will usually show you their ratings , and give an explanation of what that rating means .
How to determine how much life insurance one needs is an exercise that all conscientious insurance agents go through with every client . It is a dereliction of duty not to do so . Of course once the need is determined it still remains up to the client how much to put in place . In determining the amount of insurance needed , of primary importance is to define what the goals are of the insured . If the main goal for the insurance is to provide for dependents then the requirements for that provision will be the main determining factor for the amount needed . If the main goal for the insurance is to provide additional income in retirement then that requirement will be the determining factor . So to answer your question depends on who the insurance is for . If it is for you , you should talk with an Insurance Adviser .
The main benefits I see in Universal Life insurance are : A . The ability to purchase guaranteed permanent coverage at the least possible premium in policies that are designed for that purpose -LRB- because of minimal to no cash value -RRB- , and B. Flexibility . You can increase the premium , dump in cash , or reduce the face amount to make this one Universal Life policy a vehicle that can meet the life insurance needs of a family for a lifetime .
Yes . There are two main life insurance trusts that people use - revocable and irrevocable life insurance trusts . People use life insurance trusts because there are tax advantages that it offers , helps protect the proceeds , and helps you distribute the assets to your children at the least possible cost . An irrevocable life insurance trust -LRB- ILIT -RRB- is a legal document set up to distribute life insurance proceeds in a specific manner , depending on how the trust is designed . ILITs receive special tax consideration from the IRS that is not given to life insurance policies that would otherwise be owned by a natural person or revocable trust . Since the trust is irrevocable , the terms of the trust can not be changed -LRB- think of it like putting the contents in a vault and throwing away the key - it ca n't be opened til the insured dies -RRB- . An ILIT can offer many substantial advantages to protect life insurance proceeds . It can also help you distribute your property to your children at the least possible cost . If you have a taxable estate , you have a choice - pay the tax with your own money or pay only a fraction of the tax and use someone else 's money to pay the rest . If you want to use someone elses money to pay the tax , you can buy a life insurance policy . The type of life insurance policy will depend on the specific circumstances , but is usually a survivorship universal life policy if used for estate tax purposes . The life insurance policy may be secured for pennies on each dollar of tax that you owe . By putting the life insurance policy in an irrevocable trust , the proceeds become available to pay taxes due upon death . A life insurance policy that you purchase will require the same premium whether you put the policy in the trust or keep it outside of the trust . If you put the policy in the trust , the death benefit is not included in the calculation of the size of the estate . This is a huge tax savings , especially if the proceeds are several million dollars . If you keep the policy outside of the trust , the proceeds will be included in calculating the size of the estate potentially increasing the size of the estate by a big margin , and you may therefore have to pay much higher estate taxes before any of the property can be distributed to your children or other beneficiaries . Please let me know if I can be of further assistance . Thanks very much .
There are two main life insurance trusts that people use - revocable and irrevocable life insurance trusts . People use life insurance trusts because there are tax advantages that they offer , they protect the proceeds , and helps you distribute the assets to your children at the least possible cost . An irrevocable life insurance trust -LRB- ILIT -RRB- is a legal document set up to distribute life insurance proceeds in a specific manner , depending on how the trust is designed . ILITs receive special tax consideration from the IRS that is not given to life insurance policies that would otherwise be owned by a natural person or revocable trust . Since the trust is irrevocable , the terms of the trust can not be changed -LRB- think of it like putting the contents in a vault and throwing away the key - it ca n't be opened til the insured dies -RRB- . An ILIT can offer many substantial advantages to protect life insurance proceeds . It can also help you distribute your property to your children at the least possible cost . If you have a taxable estate , you have a choice - pay the tax with your own money or pay only a fraction of the tax and use someone else 's money to pay the rest . If you want to use someone elses money to pay the tax , you can buy a life insurance policy . The type of life insurance policy will depend on the specific circumstances , but is usually a survivorship universal life policy if used for estate tax purposes . The life insurance policy may be secured for pennies on each dollar of tax that you owe . By putting the life insurance policy in an irrevocable trust , the proceeds become available to pay taxes due upon death . A life insurance policy that you purchase will require the same premium whether you put the policy in the trust or keep it outside of the trust . If you put the policy in the trust , the death benefit is not included in the calculation of the size of the estate . This is a huge tax savings , especially if the proceeds are several million dollars . If you keep the policy outside of the trust , the proceeds will be included in calculating the size of the estate potentially increasing the size of the estate by a big margin , and you may therefore have to pay much higher estate taxes before any of the property can be distributed to your children or other beneficiaries . Please let me know if I can be of further assistance . Thanks very much .
My advise is to buy as much whole life insurance as you can afford ! But first be sure to buy it from a Mutual company that pays dividends and has a `` non-direct recognition '' for policy loans . For more on this read the short article at WEBSITELINK As Peggy said above here , depending on what your main purpose and goals are for the policy - that will play into how fast or slowly you 'll want to fund it . But for the greatest availability of the benefits inherent with a good whole life policy , and the fasted wealth growth you 'll want to fund it as fast as you can without causing it to become a modified endowment contract and thereby loosing much of the tax benefits .
Medicare does not pay for custodial care in a nursing home if that is the only care needed . It will pay for limited custodial care alongside health care provided in a home setting , but the main purpose of the services must be health related . Otherwise , Medicare does not pay for custodial care , whether short or long term .
end question
start question
medicare-insurance
When Can A Person Receive Medicare ?
People are eligible for premium-free Medicare Part A when they turn 65 and have met the 40 quarters -LRB- 10 years -RRB- of working life/paying FICA taxes . Anyone who is eligible for premium-free Part A , can qualify for Part B - Part B requires premiums . Younger individuals with certain disabilities who have been entitled to social security disability benefits and those with end-stage renal disease , may also be eligible to receive Medicare benefits .
Under certain conditions , Medicare Part A will cover intermittent or part-time home health care provided by a skilled nurse . Again , Medicares requirements for receiving home care are quite strict . Medicare will pay for home health care to treat an illness or injury only if a person meetsallof the following requirements : - A doctor must determine that medical care is needed at home and must make a plan for such care . - The person needs intermittent skilled nursing care , physical therapy , speech therapy , or occupational therapy . - The person is homebound , which means generally unable to leave home -LRB- when a person leaves , it must be infrequent and for a short time only , such as to go to a doctors appointment -RRB- . - The home health care agency must be Medicare-approved . Keep in mind that unlike Medicares nursing home benefit , a person does not need to be admitted to a hospital first in order to qualify for Medicare home health care . In addition , services will be provided on an intermittent or part-time basis only by a visiting nurse , therapist , or home health aide . Medicares home health care benefit does not pay for 24-hour full-time care . Medicare generally limits its home health care benefit because the program is only designed to serve individuals who need intermittent care for a relatively short period of time rather than care on a daily basis . Once a person is receiving Medicare home health care , his or her plan of care will be reviewed at least every 60 days . If the persons health changes and care is no longer needed , the home health agency will notify the individuals doctor , who must then contact Medicare . From that point , home care will no longer be covered by Medicare . The Medicare home health care benefit will not pay for homemaker services such as housekeeping , shopping , and cleaning . It also does not pay for custodial carethat is , help with meeting daily personal needs such as bathing , toileting , transferring , or eating . Because most people who need long-term care need custodial care , financial practitioners should point out this shortcoming to clients . Many people who do qualify for Medicare home health care benefits still need to pay for additional custodial care in order to live comfortably and independently at home .
Under certain conditions , Medicare Part A will cover intermittent or part-time home health care provided by a skilled nurse . Again , Medicares requirements for receiving home care are quite strict . Medicare will pay for home health care to treat an illness or injury only if a person meetsallof the following requirements : A doctor must determine that medical care is needed at home and must make a plan for such care . The person needs intermittent skilled nursing care , physical therapy , speech therapy , or occupational therapy . The person is homebound , which means generally unable to leave home -LRB- when a person leaves , it must be infrequent and for a short time only , such as to go to a doctors appointment -RRB- . The home health care agency must be Medicare-approved . Keep in mind that unlike Medicares nursing home benefit , a person does not need to be admitted to a hospital first in order to qualify for Medicare home health care . In addition , services will be provided on an intermittent or part-time basis only by a visiting nurse , therapist , or home health aide . Medicares home health care benefit does not pay for 24-hour full-time care . Medicare generally limits its home health care benefit because the program is only designed to serve individuals who need intermittent care for a relatively short period of time rather than care on a daily basis . Once a person is receiving Medicare home health care , his or her plan of care will be reviewed at least every 60 days . If the persons health changes and care is no longer needed , the home health agency will notify the individuals doctor , who must then contact Medicare . From that point , home care will no longer be covered by Medicare . The Medicare home health care benefit will not pay for homemaker services such as housekeeping , shopping , and cleaning . It also does not pay for custodial carethat is , help with meeting daily personal needs such as bathing , toileting , transferring , or eating . Because most people who need long-term care need custodial care , financial practitioners should point out this shortcoming to clients . Many people who do qualify for Medicare home health care benefits still need to pay for additional custodial care in order to live comfortably and independently at home .
In terms of Original Medicare , most people who are citizens or permanent residents of the United States can get premium free Medicare Part A -LRB- hospital insurance -RRB- at age 65 or older . At age 65 , you are eligible if : You receive or are eligible for Social Security benefits . You receive or are eligible to receive railroad retirement benefits . You or your spouse -LRB- living or deceased , including divorced spouses -RRB- worked long enough in a government job and paid Medicare taxes . You are the dependent parent of a fully insured deceased child . Before age 65 , you are eligible for free Medicare Part A -LRB- hospital insurance -RRB- if : Youve been entitled to receive Social Security disability benefits for 24 months . You receive a disability pension from the railroad retirement board and meet certain conditions . If you receive Social Security disability benefits because you have Lou Gehrigs disease . You worked long enough in a government job and paid Medicare taxes and you meet Social Security disability program requirements . You are the child or widow -LRB- er -RRB- age 50 or older . This includes a divorced widow -LRB- er -RRB- , of someone who has worked long enough in a government job where Medicare taxes were paid and you meet the Social Security disability program requirements . You receive maintenance dialysis or a kidney transplant because you have permanent kidney failure . You are eligible for or you already receive monthly benefits under Social Security or the railroad retirement system . You have met the required amount of time working in a Medicare covered government job . You are the child or spouse -LRB- also includes a divorced spouse -RRB- of a worker -LRB- living or deceased -RRB- who has worked long enough under Social Security or in a government -LRB- Medicare-covered -RRB- job .
Medicare Part A is free to the person receiving it , if they have paid into the Social Security taxes for at least 10 years . Medicare Part A has deductibles and copays for when Part A benefits are used . These are paid for by the person receiving the services . Medicare Part B has a premium that is charged to the Medicare recipient . There is also a deductible that is paid by the person receiving the care .
Medicare will cover skilled care when : 1 -RRB- The facility providing the skilled care is Medicare certified . 2 -RRB- You have Medicare Part A and there are remaining days in your benefit period . 3 -RRB- You have stayed in the hospital three consecutive days for the same condition which requires you to receive skilled care . 4 -RRB- Your skilled care must generally be received within 30 days of your hospital stay . If you stop receiving skilled care and then need it again within 30 days , you should not need to have another three day hospital stay to qualify . 5 -RRB- Your care is ordered by a Medicare approved doctor and reasonable for your diagnosis . Medicare will cover skilled care meeting the above conditions , in full , for the first 20 days . After that , a co-pay is required up to day 100 , when Medicare no longer covers the cost of receiving skilled care .
Medicare HIC stands for your Medicare Health Insurance Claim number or code . It begins with the Social Security number of the wage earner under whose benefits the eligible person is receiving Medicare . E.g. . If you are receiving benefits as the result of yours having paid into Medicare the required period of time , the Social Security number would be yours . If you are receiving Medicare benefits under your spouse 's employment , the Social Security number would be his or hers . The suffix behind the SSN indicates your relationship to that person .
You will enrolled for Medicare Part A automatically when you turn 65 . If you are receiving Social Securiy you will be enrolled in Part B automatically and Social Security will start deducting your Part B premium from your monthly Social Security Benefit . If you are not receiving Social Security benefits Medicare will notify you 4 to 6 months prior to your Medicare open enrollment period that you are eligible for Medicare the first day of your birth month on your 65th birthday . Your Open Enrollment Period is a 7-month period beginning 3-months before your 65th birthday and 3-months after . You can reply to the Medicare enrollment reminder to enroll you in Medicare or you can decline Part B . If you are not receiving Social Security benefits you will have to pay the first 3-months of your Part B premium by check or money order . You can decline Part B without penalty as long as you are enrolled in an qualified employer health care plan . If you are not enrolled in such a plan you will be penalized 10 % each year when or if you apply for Part B . You can also use the Medicare.gov website to enroll online .
Medicare has two options : 1 . origninal medicare & 2 . Medicare advantage . Original medicare is administered by the same beaurcrats that Obama has used to trash the health care system whereas Medicare Advantage is administered by PRIVATE insurance companies . Medicare Advantage has proven to be the most cost effective system of rendering medicare services because the insurance companies know what is appropriate and what is not appropriate . Medicare on the other hand continues to be riddled with Waste , Fraud , & Abuse-which can be summaraized by spelling P O L I T IC I A N S always looking for an opportunity to buy votes . As a matter of fact one of the L I E S CMS -LRB- Center for Medicare & Medicaid Services -RRB- has put in the Medicare Advantage booklets is `` every Medicare Advantage plan has to be the equivalent of `` original Medicare '' . Really ? I will promise you original medicare covers 80 % of LAB work , especially when it is done for annual physical . Yet , when a particular Medicare Advantage Plan refused to pay my lab charges it was an exercise in futility to get CMS to correct the problem . The Bureaucrats created two classes of sales people when Medicare Advantage was created and adminstered by the wonderful beaucrats - one class that is completely unregulated when they sell Medicare Supplement and the sales person that sells Medicare Advantage is CONTROLLED by the beaurcrats and this last year when I completed the REQUIRED CERTIFICATION it took me 24 hous just to complete the certification . Compare that to the fact I read and took the test and passed the test to sell Obummer Care in less than three hours . Controlling Health Insurance is all about CONTROLLING YOU-THE CONSUMER . Did you realize Medicare is controlled by a UNION IN wASHINGTON D. C . If you want effective health insurance you will identify the members of the unions and you will vote for politicians that will put the unions out of business .
Social Security disability insurance pays benefits to you and certain members of your family if you have earned enough work credits to be considered `` insured '' . Four work credits can be earned each year . In 2014 , you receive one work credit for each $ 1200 of earnings , up to the yearly maximum of four credits . How many credits you need for disability benefits depends on how old you are when you are disabled . If you become disabled prior to age 24 , you need 11/2 years of work -LRB- 6 credits -RRB- in the three years before you became disabled . For ages 24-30 , you need credits for half of the time between age 21 and when you became disabled . If you are 31 or older , you need at least 20 credits during the 10 year period preceding when you were disabled . Like most things associated with Social Security , it is a bit more complicated than this example . Remember , the worker has to have paid into Social Security to be qualified . There are `` survivor '' benefits as well . When a person who has worked and paid Social Security taxes dies , certain members of their family may be eligible for survivors benefits . Up to ten years of work is need to be eligible , depending on the person 's age at the time of death . A widow/widower can claim full benefits at their full retirement age and reduced benefits at age 60 . A disabled widow/widower can claim as early as age 50 . Divorced spouses under certain conditions can also claim survivor benefits . Unmarried children under age 18 -LRB- 19 if they are full time in elementary or secondary school -RRB- , some step-children , adopted children and grand children can also receive survivor benefits . There are many other situations where survivor benefits can be claimed such as a widow or widower of any age that takes care of a deceased person 's child under the age of 16 or disabled , and receiving Social Security benefits . Children who were disabled prior to their age 22 and remain disabled , and in some cases , dependent parents who are age 62 or older . As you can see , there are a lot of rules and regulations surrounding disability benefits for Social Security . Seek out someone who knows the rules .
PIP stands for periodic payment periods . In regards to Medicare , this is the system that sends bi-weekly payments to a hospital on the PIP program and are based on the hospital 's estimate of applicable Medicare reimbursement for the current cost report period . When such payments are received , a cash account in the Unrestricted Fund is debited and a PIP Clearing Account is credited for the amount of the payment . When applicable , Medicare charges are billed to the intermediary , at which time the PIP Clearing Account is debited and patient 's account receivable is credited . At year-end , adjustments must be made to eliminate any remaining balance in the PIP Clearing Account and to reflect the amount receivable from , or due to , the Medicare intermediary .
You should sign up for Medicare three months before reaching age 65 , even if you plan to delay receiving retirement benefits because you are working . Otherwise , your Medicare medical insurance , as well as prescription drug coverage , could be delayed , and you could be charged higher premiums . You can sign up for Medicare even if you are not ready to start receiving retirement benefits . You can opt out of receiving cash retirement benefits now once you are in the online application . Then you can apply online for retirement benefits later . Source for above : medicare.gov This also means you can sign up for a Medicare Advantage Plan or a Medicare Supplement and/or a Prescription drug plan . If you have any questions contact me or go to the site
Your Medicare number will normally stay the same unless you request to change it . Also , it normally does not need to renewed or replaced , so if you get a call asking for your Medicare number for purposes of renewal , do not give out that information . If you have asked for a replacement , it will be done by a written request . Medicare numbers can change if the circumstances for how your are receiving Medicare have changed . E.g. . You were receiving Medicare through a spouse who passed away , and remarried and are now receiving Medicare through a new spouse .
You will receive Medicare automatically when you reach age 65 as long as you have paid into the sytem long enough . You can also receive Medicare if you are on Social Security Disability . Shortly before you reach 65 you should receive your Medicare Card and some information from Medicare . Do not opt out of Part B unless you are still covered under a group . You also need to pick up a prescription drug plan .
Medicare is available to most people , but not quite everyone . Anyone who has paid Social Security taxes for 40 quarters throughout their working lives are eligible for free Part A Medicare at age 65 , as would their spouse be at age 65 , whether or not they worked outside the home . Disabled persons are eligible for Medicare after two years of receiving Social Security Disability benefits . There are other categories of persons who can get Medicare , including some who can pay for it rather than receive Part A free . But again , not quite everyone in the US can get it .
Most people receive Medicare Part A premium-free because they have been paying Medicare taxes during their working life and met the 40 quarters requirement -LRB- equates to 10 years of working life -RRB- . Anyone who does not meet the qualifications for premium-free Medicare Part A would have to buy the coverage - the premium for Part A is $ 426 per month . The premium-free Part A requirements are : 1 -RRB- You 're 65 or older and you 're receiving social security retirement benefits -LRB- or are eligible for receiving them , but have n't elected to take them yet -RRB- , or you or your spouse had Medicare-covered employment through the government . 2 -RRB- If you 're under 65 and have been receiving social security disability benefits for 24 months or have ESRD -LRB- end-stage renal disease -RRB- and meet certain requirements . So if you do not meet these any of those items , you 'll have to pay for the coverage . If you 're subject to paying the Part A premium and are under 65 , you may want to look at an individual health insurance plan on the health insurance exchanges instead . If you 're signed up for Part A , you 're likely signed up for Part B as well -LRB- Part B requires a monthly premium -RRB- . If so , I would suggest adding a Medicare supplement plan to cover the gaps in Part A & Part B. I hope the information is helpful - please feel free to contact me for assistance with your Medicare supplement programs and if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
You 're eligible for Medicare when you 're turning 65 years old . You can apply for Medicare benefits up to 3 months before , the month of , and up to 3 months after your birth month . I recommend applying during the 3 months before the month you turn 65 so your coverage starts on time -LRB- the first day of your birth month -RRB- - you can be subject to a delayed effective date if you apply during the 3 months after your birth month . People are eligible for premium-free Medicare Part A when they turn 65 and have met the 40 quarters -LRB- 10 years -RRB- of working life/paying FICA taxes . Anyone who is eligible for premium-free Part A , can qualify for Part B - Part B requires premiums . Younger individuals with certain disabilities who have been receiving social security disability benefits for 24 continuous months and those with end-stage renal disease , may also be eligible to receive Medicare benefits . Original Medicare -LRB- Parts A & B -RRB- only 80 % of covered healthcare expenses . Medigap plans -LRB- also known as Medicare supplement plans -RRB- can help cover all or a portion of the other 20 % . When you first enroll in Part B , you have a 6-month initial open enrollment period to buy a Medigap plan with NO medical underwriting . The advantage of having a Medigap plan to go with your Original Medicare coverage is that it creates a very predictable expense structure -LRB- a major advantage for seniors living on a fixed income -RRB- . I hope the information is helpful - please feel free to contact me for help and if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
The health insurance premium tax credit is a creation of the Affordable Care Act -LRB- ObamaCare -RRB- and first became available January 1 , 2014 . In general , individuals and families whose income falls between 100 % and 400 % of the Federal Poverty Level will qualify for some level of subsidy for health insurance that they purchase through the Federal or state health insurance marketplaces in the person 's state of residence . The amount of premium credit a person qualifies for is based upon a sliding scale that is highest at the low end of the Federal Poverty Level and declines to almost nothing as a person gets to the 400 % level . A person can only receive this premium tax credit for health insurance plans they purchase through the government health insurance marketplace . You do have a choice when you learn that you qualify for a premium tax credit . You can choose to receive it in the form of an `` Advanced Premium Tax Credit '' or you can wait until you do your annual taxes and capture it at that time . With the `` Advanced Premium Tax Credit '' choice your credit amount will be sent to the insurance carrier you select each month to pay a portion of your monthly premium and you will be balance billed for the rest . If you opt to pay for your health insurance in full and then claim your credit on your income taxes the amount of the credit you qualified for would be included in any income tax refund you receive . This might be a very important choice . Your premium subsidy will be based upon what you estimate your income will be in the coming year . If you guess wrong and receive a higher subsidy than it turns out you actually qualified for based on the income you report on your income tax form for that year then the overpayment can be withheld from any income tax refund you might have had coming . Conversely , if you made less than you had projected you would find your possible income tax refund increased by the remaining subsidy amount you would have qualified for . While the premium tax subsidies do provide a mechanism to assist persons in certain income levels to purchase health insurance they might not have otherwise been able to afford , it will also complicate the income tax filing process for many of these people .
You can get Medicare before the age of 65 if you receive a Social Security Disability check -LRB- SSDI -RRB- . If you receive an SSI check you will receive Medicaid not Medicare . For people who receive an SSDI check you will be automatically enrolled in Medicare 24 months from the date your award letter says you have been approved for Social Security disability . If you get an SSI check your Medicaid will start as soon as you get your first check .
No , Medicare is a health plan for individuals , and does not provide for dependents . Each person that receives Medicare must be eligible based on paying into Social Security taxes the required length of time -LRB- or if a spouse who did not work outside the home , based on the spouse 's contributions -RRB- and turning age 65 -LRB- or being disabled 2 + years or or a couple more situations -RRB- . If one spouse turns 65 and starts receiving Medicare , the other under-age-65 spouse , or children of the couple , can not receive Medicare based on that alone .
end question
start question
annuities
Why Choose Variable Annuities ?
Productsuitability must first beestablishedbefore purchasing an investment.Variable universal life insurance -LRB- VUL -RRB- is a unique security product that should be considered for a long term investor with a high tax bracket and an established risk tolerance for marketing investing . It has a guaranteed interest account as well as separate subaccounts using equity and bond investments . VUL designed for income can accumulate tax deferred and may be able to generate tax free income as long as the contract is kept in force for the life of the policy insured .
A variable annuity has features that make it an attractive purchase . A variable annuity is often seen as a hedge against the ravages of inflation . The time to buy a variable annuity is when you want to establish a long term savings program . Normally the objective of the program would be to accumulate money for retirement . You would consider a variable annuity if you were dissatisfied with the return offered on other annuities . The final consideration is to evaluate your risk tolerance to determine if a variable annuity is the correct contract for you . In order to purchase a variable annuity you must deal with a registered representative who holds a variable annuity license in your state . This agent receives additional supervision for your safety . This agent will provide you with a prospectus for any fund available in the variable annuity The primary feature or a variable annuity is that the contract is an annuity . An annuity can provide an income that you can not outlive . This feature can be different in various variable annuities but the fact that a lifetime income is available is extremely important . Another feature that would make a variable annuity attractive is that there isnt any taxation on gain during the accumulation period of the annuity . The gain is reinvested inside the annuity and this compounding effect is very important . A variable annuity unlike other annuities is not based upon interest , rather it is based upon the performance of underlying investment accounts which you may tailor to suit your specific needs and interests . You are normally granted the right to transfer between investment options without triggering income taxes . Many of these transfers also avoid any fees . There are risks associated with investing in a variable annuity , including loss of principal . A variable annuity is flexible . It can be changed throughout the accumulation period to meet your specific requirements . You risk tolerance can change over time . The variable annuity will allow you to change the mix of investments held by the variable annuity . If you become apprehensive about the market , there is almost always a fixed account to provide steady interest without fear of loss . There are fees associated with a variable annuity that are not always found in other annuities . These fees reflect the fact that the value of the annuity is invested , rather than merely earning interest . There are opportunities in most variable annuities to shift from fund to fund and to shift from variable funds to fixed funds . Normally there arent any fees for this service . Like most annuities surrender fees may be applicable . This is because of the long term nature of the contract and can be understood when compared to the early withdrawal penalties that are a part of certificates of deposit . These surrender fees are often waived in the event of disability . Like other annuities the variable annuity allows you to select a beneficiary . Many variable annuities provide for a guaranteed minimum death benefit that provides some safeguards for your family should you retire before you retire . The death benefit from the annuity would pass by contract to the beneficiary in the event of death avoiding probate expense and delay . Many variable annuities will return the amount of deposits as a death benefit should the value of the annuity be less .
A variable annuity is a tax-deferred retirement vehicle that allows the owner to choose from an offered selection of investments . When annuitized , it pays out a stream of income to the annuitant . The investments you choose for your variable annuity can increase or decrease in value and that means the overall value and your payout will follow . While a variable annuity can offer a nice upside , there is risk and if the investments inside the annuity decline in value , your payout will be decreased . A variable life insurance policy is a form of permanent life insurance offering a death benefit to your beneficiaries upon your passing . A portion of the premium you pay for a variable life insurance policy goes toward the insurance , a portion toward various investments that the owner of the policy chooses and a portion goes to cover associated fees related to the management of the investments . The variable life insurance policy owner will be given options for the investments , generally mutual funds . As the value of those mutual funds go up and down , the cash value inside your policy follows . There are many options to variable annuities and variable life insurance products that should be considered before purchasing .
Product suitability is extremely important in selecting an investment , variable annuities are no exception . To determine if variable annuities are suitable , you need to establish a personal financial profile that includes your risk assessment , your effective tax bracket and your life expectancy . Generally , mid to long term investors with high effective tax brackets should consider tax deferred variable annuities . Keep in mind that the benefits of variable annuities come at a cost like all investments . So do the benefits outweigh the cost of tax deferred variable annuity ? There are so many tax deferred variable annuities to choose from and the selection process can be daunting .
There are many different kinds of annuities offered by many different insurance companies . Each annuity has its own features . I typically group annuities into four main categories . Immediate Annuities : This is an annuity that begins a payment stream upon purchase or shortly thereafter -LRB- within a year -RRB- . The payment is guaranteed for a period of time or for a lifetime -LRB- or lifetimes in the case of a joint payout -RRB- . Variable Annuities : This annuity has tax deferred growth that is based on the performance of the sub-accounts within the contract . The owner of the annuity can choose which accounts to allocate their funds . The performance of the annuity can be either positive or negative so an owner is assuming some level of investment risk . Fixed Annuity : This annuity has tax deferred growth that is set for a fixed period of time . The interest rate of the annuity is usually set at the purchase date but can be adjusted at a later date in some contracts . The performance is usually a known outcome and highly dependent on the length of the annuity contract . Indexed Annuities : This annuity has tax deferred growth that is based on the performance of an particular index -LRB- es -RRB- . The owner can choose which index -LRB- es -RRB- to allocate their funds such as the S&P , but their funds are n't actually invested in that index . The index is only used to determine the performance . The performance of indexed annuities are usually only zero or higher with a limit on the upside known as a `` cap . '' These are general definitions and are by no means suggesting which is better or more appropriate for any situation . My recommendation , if you are interested in learning more about annuities , is to speak with a professional licensed to describe the pros and cons of each annuity type based on your particular situation .
The most important concept to understand when it comes to retirement planning is that it is a process of shifting consumption . The decision that must be made is how much am I going to consume today and how much do I need tomorrow . In todays low interest environment this question is easier to understand . In order to have $ 100 a month in retirement , I have to defer consumption of a certain amount today , depending upon my age and years to retirement . Once it is clear in our minds that retirement planning isnt about beating the stock market , winning a jackpot , or winning a national lottery , we can address the issue of how to shift those funds that represent our deferred consumption . The best place to start is with an advisor who will listen to you and communicate clearly with you . That advisor will be careful to measure your risk tolerance . The advisor doesnt want you staying awake at night worrying about losing money in your retirement plan , which is what happened to many in 2008 . The advisor will ask a battery of questions that measure your expectations and compares that with your willingness to experience loss . Eventually a picture will emerge that will give the advisor a snapshot of your current thinking about investing . The good adviser will continue reviewing your risk tolerance throughout the period of time that investment advice is being given . The advisor will take that information and compile recommendations of funds that would be suitable to help you meet your objectives and yet are sufficiently diversified to offer a degree of protection for the assets that you will invest . The adviser will offer you choices . He may suggest that these assets be held in a variable annuity . The annuity has certain features that might be important to you . The variable annuity will frequently feature both fixed and variable options . The variable annuity will usually allow you to shift assets as your risk tolerance changes . For example , at age 60 after several years of having a variable annuity , you might experience a windfall , perhaps a legacy . You might want to become more aggressive with your variable annuity . You will be able to shift funds to accomplish this change easily . If later reverses make you more tentative , you can return your funds into fixed or very conservative options . This ability to shift is an important feature of the variable annuity . Ultimately the results of the annuity will be a function of the options which you select . While that might seem daunting , in fact , if you selected funds in your comfort zone you will most likely be pleased with the results . The main point is the process of shifting those dollars from current consumption to future consumption . When you start spending them you will not remember how much of a return you made in a given year . The variable annuity also has the benefit of being an annuity . That means that you can select to receive your money in retirement as a life-long stream of income . The return on such an annuity can be remarkably high . The company will probably offer alternative distribution plans to meet your specific needs . There will probably be a survivor option so that your spouse could receive the balance of payments if you dont reach a specified age or havent exhausted the initial fund . Some companies that issue variable annuities will allow you to continue to manage your money in the annuitization process . Then the results wont be guaranteed and can rise and fall with the values of the underlying securities .
A non-qualified variable annuity accumulates tax deferred with access to the market . High tax bracket individuals could benefit from the tax deferral aspects of variable annuities . A variable annuity is a security and insurance product that needs to be deemed suitable for the buyer before moving forward with the purchase . Once you 've determined your risk tolerance and product suitability you can rank variable annuities by expense loads and policy provisions that best fit your financial goals . You could lose money in variable annuities . Variable annuities have differing embedded policy provisions and additional riders , usually , for an addition price . Expense loads may dictate the value of the variable annuity as does the portfolio of separate sub accounts . Variable annuities have performance records and risk assessments published through Morning Star .
I ca n't think of a time that Variable annuities are a good idea . If you are going to buy an variable annuity , you might as well just buy mutual funds . Why pay the fees attached to the variable annuity ? The only feature of a variable annuity that is even attractive is the income rider and you can get the same or better income rider from an indexed annuity that wo n't give you the growth potential that a mutual fund would but it does offer downside protection .
A fixed annuity is a contract issued by an insurance company . In that contract the owner is not really required to do anything except make at least one deposit . The insurance company guarantees everything else . The insurance company will accumulate money in the annuity , if it is deferred , and guarantees that the money will receive a guaranteed amount of interest each year . Currently there are a great number of fixed annuities in force with interest rates far in excess of the interest rates offered to new customers . The company guarantees those rates for as long as the contract is in force . These guarantees continue into the annuitization phase when the company will return to the annuitant an amount of money guaranteed by a formula inside the contract and will make those payments until the annuitant passes away , or even beyond in many cases . Everything is guaranteed by the company . In contrast a variable annuity has few guarantees . The owner can choose into which funds the deposits will be invested and can often select to maintain that control even when the policy is annuitizing . This results in uneven results both during accumulation and annuitization . Sometimes that works for the benefit of the annuitant , but it could work against the annuitant if the underlying securities fail to perform . Incidentally it takes someone with a variable annuity license to sell this product . An indexed annuity is somewhere in between these extremes . The money that accumulates in the contract usually has a guaranteed minimum level of interest . This is often 0 which can be a great deal better than a significant minus number . The amount of interest credited to the account is linked by the insurance company to one of the leading indexes . The Dow Jones Average is one index . The Standard and Poors index is another . The company uses these indexes to set the interest that will be credited to the account . Normally the index annuity does not receive the exact interest rate indicated by the index . There will either be a ceiling above which the insurance company will not go or the interest rate is modified by a factor . For example if the S&P went up 10 % , depending upon the contract , the indexed annuity might pay 7 % or 70 % of the index according to the contract . However it might pay 5 % because there is a 5 % ceiling on the interest the company will pay . The index annuity is attractive because it allows the annuitant to participate in the results of the market without ever actually holding shares of stock . It has upside potential but it doesnt have any downside risk . During a rising market we would expect the index annuity to do quite well , However , it might not do as well as the Variable Annuity . During a down market it will not lose money , however a Variable Annuity can lose money . At the same time the Fixed Annuity will continue to earn its guaranteed rate of interest and may even raise its interest rate from time to time , but everything is guaranteed .
In general , there are two types of annuities : variable annuities and fixed annuities . Variable annuities are often described as mutual funds inside an insurance contract . Variable annuities have fees that are higher than fixed annuities , and while they are subject to market gains , they can also be subject to market losses . It is possible to lose principal in a variable annuity . Surrender charges apply and can be significant in the first few years . Insurance companies take your annuity money and make long-term commitments using that money and if you decide to pull your money out on an accelerated schedule other than that which was originally agreed upon , they can lose out on their long-term investment . Fixed annuities , which include indexed annuities , are not subject to market losses and most come with the commitment to `` never go down '' in value . Fixed annuities have penalties for early withdrawal and they are significant in the first few years . You are generally allowed an amount you can withdraw `` penalty free '' each year - around 10 % . Fixed annuities are not FDIC insured . They are based on the `` claims paying ability and financial strength of the issuing insurance company '' . Look at the history of insurance companies over the past 100 + years and you 'll probably favor what you see over the banking industry . While there are some `` annuity bashers '' out there , they generally have a product they are trying to sell that suits their agenda or wallet . Annuities should be considered a long-term product and if you purchase an annuity , you should only do so with money you are certain will not be needed over the life of that annuity . There are penalty free withdrawal provisions and you should be aware of what those are . Annuities have lots of advantages and certainly some disadvantages as well . As always , the suitability of a financial product is based on your specific situation and needs and a licensed , qualified financial professional should be sought out to help .
An indexed annuity was initially a method to make the market participation of a variable annuity available to the fixed and guaranteed marketplace . The appropriate name for a `` index annuity '' is an Equity Indexed Annuities -LRB- EIA -RRB- . The idea of a variable indexed annuity is unusual but Allianz actually is offering a product with the name `` Index Advantage Variable Annuity '' . According to the Securities and Exchange Commission , there are three types of annuities . There are fixed , indexed or variable annuities . The vast bulk of indexed annuities are not registered with the SEC and are therefore considered `` fixed '' . Without more information to help you 'll have to accept that an indexed annuity is probably a fixed product but some carriers are creating variable indexed annuities .
That is a great question ! The question is really not accurate though , it 's like asking why all dogs bite people . Not all dogs do , but the ones that do give them all a bad name . Are variable annuities bad ? They most certainly can be , if your risk tolerance is low , or your allocations made unwisely . Just like you would pick a dog that suits your needs and temperament , you should choose an annuity to suit you also . The risk in a variable annuity may not be right for you , but may suit someone else quite well . Please take the time to discuss what you are looking for with an agent that will listen , and take your concerns to heart . If they pressure you , or appear to be more interested in the sale than what you say , do n't buy , and send them packing . Annuities are not something that you can afford to buy without completely understanding what you 're buying . I hope that helps , please contact me if you need more information , okay ? Thanks for asking !
Can you lose money with a variable annuity ? Yes , because you 're buying a product that allows you the opportunity to make more money than a fixed or even an indexed annuity can offer . So with the opportunity of greater gains also comes the possibility of greater loss . If you were to choose a Variable Annuity as an investment choice , it would require you to pay attention and make adjustments as you go . A Variable Annuity is not really a product that you buy and forget about till you need it .
Variable annuities may be appropriate for a high tax bracket long term investor with a desire for market returns with an understanding of the risk . A tax deferred variable annuity is a security and an insurance product . Because a variable annuity is a security , potential product purchasers need to determine their risk tolerance for market losses . High tax bracket , long term investors may also benefit from the tax deferral of variable annuities . A variable annuity has a general interest rate earning account and separate sub accounts using equity and bond investments . Policy expenses are deducted from premiums , i.e. net premiums . Net premiums are then invested in the either the general account or separate sub accounts or both . Net premiums invested in the allocations in the separate sub accounts that are either credited with gains or debited with losses depending on performance . Most variable annuities are purchased in a qualified or non-qualified plan for future income .
The variable annuity will make sense based on your individual needs and personal circumstances . This type of annuity is a contract between the insurance company and the insured -LRB- i.e. client or customer -RRB- . The insured pays one lump sum payment or may make other payment arrangements to the insurance company . Then , the insurance company agrees to make payments back to the insured at specific dates in the future . With the variable annuity , the client can receive monthly payments for the rest of his life . Also , this annuity protects you if you out live your assets . Variable annuities are also used to hedge against inflation . If you think you are going to live a long time , you should think about buying an annuity . Your beneficiary -LRB- i.e. children and other family members -RRB- may be able to receive the payments when you die . The variable annuity is tax-deferred . You do not pay taxes until you withdraw the money . Some variable annuities have a death benefit . Make sure you read the prospectus and ask a lot of questions . This type of investment is for the long-term and to help you meet your retirement goals and objectives .
Non-qualified tax deferred variable annuities are classified as a security . Non-qualified tax deferred variable annuities have separate sub accounts using market equities and bond investments that can lose money and incur policy expenses . A personal financial profile needs to be created with a risk tolerance assessment before moving forward with the purchase of a non-qualified or qualified tax deferred variable annuities or the allocation of the separate sub accounts . Variable annuity policy expense loads can be a concern as policy expenses are paid out of deposits made into the annuity regardless of positive or negative performance . Variable annuities , like all annuities , are designed ultimately for generating income . You may want to consider purchasing an income rider that may offer guaranteed lifetime income .
A non-qualified , tax deferred fixed rate annuity is only as guaranteed as the contract provisions outline and is only as good as the annuity insurance company that issued the contract . That being said , many financial stable annuity insurance companies offer a non-qualified tax deferred fixed rate annuities , generally at 5 , 7 and 10 year periods . A non-qualified , tax deferred variable annuity is separate sub accounts which use equity and bond instruments in variable annuities . Because these accounts are market driven you can lose money . Currently the variable annuity feature of the income rider is attractive for investors with an established risk tolerance . There are many competitive variable annuity contracts available . ;
There are two basic classifications of annuities , immediate and deferred . The immediate annuity provides income payments over the lifetime of the annuitant starting within one year of the deposit . The deferred annuity doesnt start payments until a later date . Deferred annuities may increase in value over time . That increase is not subject to income tax as it occurs . This deferral of taxation is a major attraction of annuities . A deferred annuity can be either a single premium annuity or a flexible annuity . As a single premium annuity it is often used to augment retirement income at a later date , when other streams of income may have ceased . It is often used to anticipate increases in inflation , providing a much needed boost in income . As a flexible deferred annuity the contract allows the owner to make deposits on either a scheduled or unscheduled basis into the policy . As mentioned previously earnings on the contract are not taxed in the years that the money is accumulating . A deferred annuity can be classified into three major groups . The first would be the fixed annuity , the second would be the variable annuity and the third would be the indexed annuity . The fixed annuity is issued by an insurance company . The owner makes at least one deposit and everything that takes place later is the responsibility of the insurance company . The company guarantees the growth and guarantees the future payments . There isnt any market risk in this policy . A variable annuity , while structured similarly by the insurance company that issues it , allows that the owner can select the funds that will accumulate to provide future benefits . In some cases it may extend the privilege of selecting underlying funds into the annuitization phase which will result in uneven results but has the potential of exceptional growth . An index annuity lies somewhere in between . The index annuity is designed by the insurance company but rather than paying a guaranteed rate of interest , bases interest payments on the performance of one of the leading market indicators . Commonly these policies are linked to the Dow Jones Average or the Standard and Poors index . The annuity has restrictions on the amount of interest credited . The interest rate can either be capped at a preset percentage or the policy can be written so that only a percentage of the rate is applied to the money in the annuity . The trade-off comes when the company guarantees a minimum rate of interest . That minimum rate is often 0 % . What this means is that the annuity can participate somewhat in the increases experienced in the stock market without the risk of losing anything . This is quite attractive and currently very popular . An aspect of all annuities that is often overlooked is that they are not subject to probate . That means that as a contract the value of the annuity passes to a designated beneficiary without the expensive and time consuming process known as probate . Taxation of annuities is another subject but it is important to know where the annuity is going to be held to determine its taxation .
That is a great question ! There are just about as many different variable annuity products out there as there are varieties of ice cream . And even more potential rates of return . You would really need to first understand that any variable annuity will offer several crediting options that will play a part in your return . Then understand that the performance of the underlying investments plays a part , and that the policy 's floors , caps , participation rates and guarantees all factor in . Variable annuities can be a great investment , or a very bad one , if you do n't understand how and why they work the way they do . Please consult a trusted agent or adviser before purchasing one of these products . If you are less risk tolerant , perhaps an indexed annuity might be a better product . They are tied to market performance , without the risk , and safer guarantees . Ask your agent or adviser to show you a couple of each to compare , okay ? Thanks for asking !
A variable annuity is a security and insurance product that needs to be deemed suitable for the buyer before moving forward with the purchase . You could lose money in variable annuities . Variable annuities have differing embedded policy provisions and additional riders , usually , for an addition price . Expense loads may dictate the value of the variable annuity as does the portfolio of separate sub accounts . Once you 've determined your risk tolerance and product suitability you can rank variable annuities by expense loads and policy provisions that best fit your financial goals .
end question
start question
auto-insurance
Can Auto Insurance Companies Raise Rates ?
Each renewal of your auto insurance insurance policy your carrier if they wish may raise your auto insurance premium . A notice of the increase in rates is typically sent at least thirty days before the policy comes up for renewal . Almost all auto insurance policies are active for a six month or one year term .
That is an excellent question , and one that I get asked a lot ! There are a couple of things that you can do to get your insurance rate lowered . The best is to continue to have a claim and ticket free driving record . If your record is clean , many companies will offer a discount . If yours does n't then tell them you are going to drop the policy and switch , and see if that will motivate them to work with you on the rate , or to match the rate of the company you will switch to . -LRB- many will -RRB- . Another way is to add your other policies to your auto insurer 's company . Having multiple cars or policies with the same company will result usually in substantial discounts on all of the policies . The last way , and one I caution you on , is to raise the amount of your deductible . If it is $ 500 now , and you can afford to pay a $ 1000 if you need to , then raise it to $ 750 or $ 1,000 , and get a lower rate . If you 'd have a hard time coming up with $ 500 , I 'd not advise raising it , especially if you 've filed claims before . Ask your agent to help , they are good that way , and thank you for asking !
Great question ! Unfortunately , that is a tough question to answer without a little more information from you . There are many reasons why your rates may increase within the state mandated rate limits . Some things that can raise your rates are a result of how you drive . A claim filed for an ` at fault ' accident can raise your rate , as can a poor driving record , or speeding tickets , in some cases . -LRB- You are a bigger risk for a payout , so you pay more , just as someone who smokes pays more for life insurance - smoking has been proven to increase your health risks , and bad driving habits increase your risk for an accident . -RRB- Some things are not in your control - rates can increase if the vehicle theft rate in your area increases , if the company has had to pay out significant claims , and their profits are down , or you move into a different age category in some cases . Some companies will even look at your creditworthiness as a basis for your rates . The purpose of insurance is n't to provide you with a steady rate as much as it is to help you in the event that you are in a position where the cost to repair or replace a car is more than you can afford . That said , there are some companies that will offer `` first accident forgiveness '' types of policies , and are a bit more lenient in their rate changes . I 'd tell you that if you are unhappy with your current rate to shop around and see if there is a better company or rate that fits your budget . If you have further questions , please contact me , I 'd be happy to help . Sorry for the unpleasant answer , but I appreciate you asking !
Since I 've been around , it seem like all companies raise rates all the time . It is a good rule of thumb to shop your rates every 5 years . I say 5 years as the next company will give you a better rate since you stayed with your last company for at least 5 years . All insurance companies must file their rates with the states insurance department before they raise them , but they keep going up just like everything else . Keep your driving record clean and your credit good and you should have good rates .
I agree with Cathy , but also offer one other major reason rates go up . Insurers are pricing a product before they know their cost . It something like building a spec house for sale at $ 300,000 with out knowing that the purchaser is going to require all hard wood floors , a finished basement and a three car garage . Had you known you would have priced your product at $ 400,000 . This is some of the dilemma of insurers . Thy can look at historical outcomes and yet may not see a trend developing before it happens . The reason most auto insurance is sold in Six month terms in the US , is that it often takes a minimum of one year for the carrier to realize rate level on all customers in a certain state and rate filing . Let me give an example : If company A sees it needs rate increase on its TX auto insurance business and puts that rate into effect after state approval on July 1,2014 it will take a full six months to raise the rate level to the new level for the last customer whose policy incepts on 12/31/2014 . Then it takes the company another 6 months to earn the premium for each of those customers . It has to set aside some money in case you decide to move your business , as well as keep reserves for accidents that have occurred or are known to be likely to occur in the future.So in a full year at 7/1/2015 the company has realized the effects of its rate filing in the state . If it now needs more funds , it will take the same 12 months to fully earn that premium . So in effect you can see that the process of getting an adequate rate for an insurers losses and expected losses is at least a year on six month polices and double that to two years to achieve the rate level on annual policies . That said , recognize that your rates can go up annually in a 12 month policy because of a company 's filings and go up as much as every six months for an insurer who uses 6 moth policies.So , all that said , you do n't control the pricing that is an aggregate need of the insurer but you can better protect yourself by buying a 12 month policy . Lock in a rate level . If you do not change the exposure -LRB- new car or new operators and such -RRB- , you will have locked in rate for one whole year . So my advice is to seek out an insurer that writes annual policies if available .
When shopping for Medicare Supplement do not just go by rates . Many agents will tell you that all plans are the same and the only difference is rates , and that is true . However , I have seen many companies go in to an area with rates that are low , only to raise the rates by 30 % or more the following year . Unless you like changing plans every year and you know your health will always be good , this is not necessarily the best way to go . Look for a company that is competitive , but that has a good history of rate increases , generally less than 10 % . Every agent is getting solicited by companies wanting them to sell their now lowest rate plan . Find a good local agent who has been around for a while . I personally like the AARP Med Sup . It is competitive and has an excellent rate history . It also uses community rating versus attained age rating . With attained age , which most companies use , you pay a low rate at first but every year you can count on a rate increase just because you got older , in addition to the rate increase the company has . With community rating , the rates are equaled over the ages so that you pay a little more at 65 for example but when you are 85 your rates will be lower than if you went with an attained age company . Also look for an agent that also does Medicare Advantage and Prescription Drug plans . He will be able to help you decide which would be to your best advantage .
The largest insurers of private passenger vehicles in the USA , in order by US market share , are State Farm , GEICO , Allstate , Progressive , and Farmers Insurance Group . However , the top five companies will vary by state . For example , American Family Insurance is the company with the largest auto insurance market share in Wisconsin . Each state 's auto insurance market is unique . The top five companies in terms of US auto insurance market share are large national companies available in most US states . However , regional insurance companies often have large market share in certain states , like Commerce Insurance in Massachusetts . So , the important auto insurance companies will depend on where you live . The companies with the largest market shares do not necessarily make them the best companies for you . Progressive & GEICO continue to have large gains in market share over recent years , which may be a sign they have lower rates than competitors . Some of the best companies can be smaller regional companies . For example , companies like Erie & Auto-owners usually score higher than many other companies in annual JD Power auto customer satisfaction & auto claims satisfaction studies . The best thing you can do is read reviews & check the ratings of all the major auto insurance companies in your state , and compare their coverage , service , and rates . People really can find a better auto insurance company with much lower rates , if they shop with enough companies .
Most homeowners policies have an annual adjustment for the increased costs of construction . This raises the limits in the policy which also raises the premium . With each passing year the home grows older and that also affects the premium . Companies often reward customers who do not have claims and those discounts can have a substantial effect on your premium . Occasionally companies will file for and receive from the state insurance commissioner permission to raise the rates in a specific area due to losses that exceed the premiums received .
Each renewal of your auto insurance insurance policy your carrier if they wish may raise your auto insurance premium . A notice of the increase in rates is typically sent at least thirty days before the policy comes up for renewal . Almost all auto insurance policies are active for a six month or one year term .
If you are looking to lower your auto insurance rates , the first thing that I would suggest if you have a homeowners or renters policy and it is not with the same carrier as your auto insurance then you may want to purchase that coverage from your auto insurance carrier to be able to possibly get an additional discount for having multiple policies with the same carrier . You could also look into lowering your coverage amounts or raising your deductibles .
You can purchase a Medigap policy on line , direct from the company , or through an agent . The premium will be the same no matter which you choose . I recommend using an experienced agent familiar with all of the plans available in your area . When choosing a plan do not just go by rates alone . While the coverage is the same because plans have been standardized , some companies have a history of going into a state with very low rates and then within two years raise the raise 30 -60 % . If you do n't mind changing plans every year and your health remains good then you might save a little money initially , but in the long run it could cost you money . Find a competitive plan that has a history of stable rates . A good agent can help you with that .
Full coverage on auto insurance covers the physical damage done to YOUR vehicle . Liability coverage only will cover claims brought against you in an accident . `` Full coverage '' has two parts , comprehensive coverage -LRB- if a tree falls on your car , or a hail storm does damage to your vehicle , basically most occurrences when you are not in the vehicle -RRB- , and collision coverage , which covers the physical damage done to your vehicle in an accident . You can choose to get comprehensive only , or comprehensive and collision , but not collision without comprehensive . Note : the deductibles for each can be different . You will typically save more money by raising your collision deductible compared to raising your comprehensive deductible .
Understand that `` points '' are not standard in regards to auto insurance . The amount of points that the Ohio BMV assigns to different violations may be scored differently by auto insurance companies . And not only are points weighed differently , but many companies have different point scales . But generally speaking , with most companies , only having 1 point would be minor and should n't raise your premium all that much .
Mild , seasonal asthma that has been under control for many years will generally not have an impact on life insurance rates . Moderate asthma with occasional attacks and requiring daily medication will generally raise rates a little . Severe asthma requiring continual steroid treatment and exhibiting recent , frequent attacks can raise life insurance premiums significantly . If smoking or COPD is involved along with severe asthma , it could result in a decline .
That , frankly depends on your auto insurance provider . Some companies offer `` Accident Forgiveness '' benefits which elliminates any anxiety about the company raising your rates if you file a claim . In many cases , if you are involved in an accident that is not your fault , for example if you are hit by someone else and they take off , your insurance company may not increase your rates if they are needed to settle your claim .
The rate of return of annuities really depends on what type of annuity you are talking about . Fixed Annuities have a set base rate similar to a CD , they pay a guaranteed rates of interest . If you are looking for a fixed annuity make sure you shop around some companies like Fidelity & Guaranty Life and Guaranty Income Life are raising their base rates . When you are looking at Index Annuities the insurance company gives you a guaranteed minimum interest rate and also a crediting strategy like the S&P 500 or something like that . Think of it this way there are two buckets of money , the first has your money with the guaranteed interest rate , the second has your money linked to the crediting strategy of the market . If the market goes up they will credit that bucket with interest -LRB- every company has different participation rates and caps -RRB- . If the market is down then that bucket will earn no interest . When ever you want to start drawing an income , the insurance company will see which bucket has the most money and that bucket will be used for income . If you work with a good broker , they have software that will show you what your investment will look like with all of the companies . Please let me know if I can help in any way .
Can insurance companies raise prices ? Yes or no , depending on the product you choose to buy . Whole life policies tend to have a guaranteed premium that the company can not raise the price of . That is a reason whole life tends to be more expensive than other choices , because the insurance company can not at a later time , change the cost . Term policies on the other hand , may offer a period of time where the cost is locked in , but it usually wo n't be for the life of the policy . A person could have a period of time where the cost stays the same for say , ten years . After ten years the price would go up every year the policy remained in force .
Because of the affordable care act insurance companies must cover everyone regardless of their health . This will increase claims . The companies must also cover pregnancy for all women which is an increased exposure in many cases . Companies can no longer charge according to age , the rates will be determined by community rating . As a result younger people will have their rates go up while some older people may have their rates go down . All of this increased exposure means more claims . The companies will be forced to raise rates to keep solvent .
Direct auto insurance is not a type of auto insurance , but a way to buy or method of selling auto insurance . Some auto insurance companies , like USAA & Amica , do not have insurance agents representing them , and sell auto insurance -LRB- and other types of insurance -RRB- direct to the public only . Auto insurance companies selling direct to the public staff call centers with licensed insurance representatives employed by the company , to sell and service the company 's insurance products . Although I think most people benefit from receiving the personal service of an agent , accountable to the customer for providing customer service , advice , and assistance , both USAA & Amica have excellent reputations for claims & customer service . Companies like GEICO & Progressive are known for selling direct to the public , though GEICO has agents available in many large metropolitan areas , and Progressive also sells through independent insurance agents , though the products and rates will be different than buying direct . When you call a company selling direct for an auto insurance quote , you speak with a company employee licensed to sell insurance , working from a call center , most likely out-of state -LRB- but not outside of the USA -RRB- . If you buy the auto insurance policy , there is no one person at the company responsible for your account , as there would be , if you purchased a policy through an agent . So , a company employee sells you the auto insurance policy , but if you call back with a question , or to make a policy change liking adding or removing a car , whichever employee answering the phone will help you , much like you receive help when you call your cable TV company . GEICO & Progressive seem to compete on price more than other companies , but buying direct does not always mean a better price . Selling direct mean no agent commissions to pay , but selling direct has other costs , like more marketing costs for TV & media ads , employee salaries and benefits . A wise auto insurance shopper decides on the coverage they need , then check the rates of all the major auto insurance companies in their state , regardless of whether the company sells direct , through their own local agents , or through independent insurance agents .
The cost of Home Insurance is based on the losses in your area . Extreme weather works in cycles , so a specific area will have several years of very severe storm losses , causing rates to go up . When that cycle ends the losses go down and so do the rates . Of course construction costs tend to trend up , as do the values of everything else , and insurance rates have to adjust to compensate , but without rate increases , insurance companies would not be able to afford to stay in business through the bad years . A great example of this is the state of Florida . After Hurricane Andrew , insurance companies were hit very hard . When they tried to raise rates the state passed legislation limiting rate increases . So , backed into a corner , many insurance companies went broke or pulled out of Florida . Consequently , the largest insurer in Florida is now the state of Florida -LRB- the taxpayers are on the hook for claims if another significant storm hits -RRB- . After several years of no severe storms , that trend is reversing with several insurance companies coming back into the state and the # of policies the state holds is decreasing .
end question
start question
medicare-insurance
Is There A Medicare F ?
Medicare supplement plan F , also known as Medigap plan F , is extremely popular among seniors . In most states 60 % or more of the Medigap plans owned by seniors are plan F. Medicare supplement plan F pays 100 % of approved Medicare Part A and Part B claims after Medicare adjudicates and pays their portion . In spite of the popularity , over 90 % of my Medicare clients pick something OTHER THAN plan F .
Medicare SUPPLEMENT plan F is probably what you are thinking about . Medicare has 4 parts . Part A is the hospital portion , Part B is outpatient , Part C is Medicare Advantage , Part D is drugs . Medicare supplement plan F pays 100 % of approved Medicare Part A and B expenses that are not paid by Medicare due to deductibles and coinsurance .
Medicare supplement plans -LRB- commonly referred to as Medigap plans -RRB- are designed to help seniors who want high quality healthcare and are on Medicare , cover the gap between what hospitals and doctors charge for their services and what Medicare will pay . Health insurance is constantly changing , which can make finding the right plan for you very strenuous . Supplementing your Original Medicare coverage -LRB- Medicare Parts A & B -RRB- with a Medicare Supplement plan will help you create a very predictable expense structure for your healthcare and allow you to see any doctor you want that accepts Medicare . Any doctor that accepts Medicare will also accept your Medicare Supplement plan . Original Medicare -LRB- Parts A & B -RRB- covers appoximately 80 % of your healthcare expenses . Medicare supplements -LRB- or commonly referred to as Medigap -RRB- plans help provide coverage for the other 20 % . There are 10 different Medicare supplement plans and they are all standardized , meaning a plan F from company A and a plan F from company B feature the EXACT the same benefits . The 10 different plans available are plans A , B , C , D , F , G , K , L , M , and N. Each plan offers certain benefits some more comprehensive than others . For example , Plan A offers coverage of only the basic benefits of Medicare Supplement Insurance , while Plan F is the most comprehensive . Plan F also offers a high-deductible version of the plan it is the only plan that offers this feature . Under a high-deductible plan F -LRB- also referred to as Hi-F -RRB- , the insured must pay for Medicare-covered costs up to the years deductible amount $ 2,140 in 2014 before the supplement plan pays anything . The benefit of the high-deductible plan F is that it offers the insured a much lower monthly premium . There are 9 benefits available in Medigap plans : 1 -RRB- Medicare Part A coinsurance and hospital costs up to an additional 365 days after Medicare benefits are used up 2 -RRB- Medicare Part B coinsurance or copayment 3 -RRB- First 3 pints of blood 4 -RRB- Part A hospice care coinsurance or copayment 5 -RRB- Skilled nursing facility care coinsurance 6 -RRB- Medicare Part A deductible 7 -RRB- Medicare Part B deductible 8 -RRB- Medicare Part B excess charges 9 -RRB- Foreign travel emergency -LRB- up to limits as cited in the plans -RRB- Each plan provides a percentage of coverage for the first 4 benefits . From there , each plan features some or all of the other 5 benefits . Plan F is the most comprehensive benefit as it covers all 9 benefits at 100 % . Plan G is almost identical as it covers 8 benefits at 100 % -LRB- the one it does n't cover is the Part B deductible . Plan N is also very competitive - as long as your primary care doctor accepts Medicare and assignment , your only other payment other than your premium would be the Part B deductible -LRB- $ 147 in 2014 -RRB- and a copay at the doctor 's office -LRB- up to $ 20 per visit -RRB- or hospital -LRB- up to $ 50 per visit -RRB- . I highly recommend downloading a copy of the Medigap guidebook on the Medicare.gov website - the guidebook is titled `` Choosing a Medigap Policy : A Guide to Health Insurance for People with Medicare . '' Agents will have this on hand as well - it 's required to be given to the proposed insured if they decide to apply for a plan . You can send me a private message if you 'd like me to e-mail it to you . I hope the information is helpful - please feel free to contact me for assistance with your coverage including plan quotes and comparisons . Thanks very much .
The cost of a medicare supplement plan is determined by several factors : your age , your zip code , the plan you want -LRB- e.g. plan f , plan n , etc. -RRB- , and whether you use tobacco products . Rates will vary by insurance company and not every company offers every plan . If you 're being medically underwritten , you may be assigned level 2 rates instead of the standard rate/level 1 if you have certain medical conditions . Medicare supplement plans -LRB- commonly referred to as Medigap plans -RRB- are designed to help seniors who want high quality healthcare and are on Medicare , cover the gap between what hospitals and doctors charge for their services and what Medicare will pay . Supplementing your Original Medicare coverage -LRB- Medicare Parts A & B -RRB- with a Medicare Supplement plan will help you create a very predictable expense structure for your healthcare and allow you to see any doctor you want that accepts Medicare -LRB- meaning no networks ! -RRB- . Any doctor that accepts Medicare will also accept your Medicare Supplement plan . There are 10 different Medicare supplement plans and they are all standardized , meaning a plan F from company A and a plan F from company B feature the EXACT the same benefits . The 10 different plans available are plansA , B , C , D , F , G , K , L , M , and N. Each plan offers certain benefits some more comprehensive than others . For example , Plan A offers coverage of only the basic benefits of Medicare Supplement Insurance , while Plan F is the most comprehensive . Plan F also offers a high-deductible version of the plan it is the only plan that offers this feature . Under a high-deductible plan F -LRB- also referred to as Hi-F -RRB- , the insured must pay for Medicare-covered costs up to the years deductible amount $ 2,140 in 2014 before the supplement plan pays anything . The benefit of the high-deductible plan F is that it offers the insured a much lower monthly premium . I would recommend consulting with an experienced Medicare supplement broker to determine which supplement plan is most suitable to your needs and your budget . Please feel free to contact me for help . Thanks very much .
The cost of a medicare supplement plan is determined by several factors : your age , your zip code , the plan you want -LRB- e.g. plan f , plan n , etc. -RRB- , and whether you use tobacco products . Rates will vary by insurance company and not every company offers every plan . If you 're being medically underwritten , you may be assigned level 2 rates instead of the standard rate/level 1 if you have certain medical conditions . Medicare supplement plans -LRB- commonly referred to as Medigap plans -RRB- are designed to help seniors who want high quality healthcare and are on Medicare , cover the gap between what hospitals and doctors charge for their services and what Medicare will pay . Supplementing your Original Medicare coverage -LRB- Medicare Parts A & B -RRB- with a Medicare Supplement plan will help you create a very predictable expense structure for your healthcare and allow you to see any doctor you want that accepts Medicare -LRB- meaning no networks ! -RRB- . Any doctor that accepts Medicare will also accept your Medicare Supplement plan . There are 10 different Medicare supplement plans and they are all standardized , meaning a plan F from company A and a plan F from company B feature the EXACT the same benefits . The 10 different plans available are plans A , B , C , D , F , G , K , L , M , and N. Each plan offers certain benefits some more comprehensive than others . For example , Plan A offers coverage of only the basic benefits of Medicare Supplement Insurance , while Plan F is the most comprehensive . Plan F also offers a high-deductible version of the plan it is the only plan that offers this feature . Under a high-deductible plan F -LRB- also referred to as Hi-F -RRB- , the insured must pay for Medicare-covered costs up to the years deductible amount $ 2,140 in 2014 before the supplement plan pays anything . The benefit of the high-deductible plan F is that it offers the insured a much lower monthly premium . I would recommend consulting with an experienced Medicare supplement broker to determine which supplement plan is most suitable to your needs and your budget . Please feel free to contact me for help . Thanks very much .
Medicare supplement plans -LRB- commonly referred to as Medigap plans -RRB- are designed to help seniors who want high quality healthcare and are on Medicare , cover the gap between what hospitals and doctors charge for their services and what Medicare will pay.Health insurance is constantly changing , which can make finding the right plan for you very strenuous.Supplementing your Original Medicare coverage -LRB- Medicare Parts A & B -RRB- with a Medicare Supplement plan will help you create a very predictable expense structure for your healthcare and allow you to see any doctor you want that accepts Medicare . Any doctor that accepts Medicare will also accept your Medicare Supplement plan . There are 10 different Medicare supplement plans and they are all standardized , meaning a plan F from company A and a plan F from company B feature the EXACT the same benefits . The 10 different plans available are plansA , B , C , D , F , G , K , L , M , and N. Each plan offers certain benefits some more comprehensive than others . For example , Plan A offers coverage of only the basic benefits of Medicare Supplement Insurance , while Plan F is the most comprehensive . Plan F also offers a high-deductible version of the plan it is the only plan that offers this feature . Under a high-deductible plan F -LRB- also referred to as Hi-F -RRB- , the insured must pay for Medicare-covered costs up to the years deductible amount $ 2,140 in 2014 before the supplement plan pays anything . The benefit of the high-deductible plan F is that it offers the insured a much lower monthly premium .
Medigap plans -LRB- commonly referred to as Medicare supplement plans -RRB- are designed to help seniors who want high quality healthcare and are on Medicare , cover the gap between what hospitals and doctors charge for their services and what Medicare will pay . Health insurance is constantly changing , which can make finding the right plan for you very strenuous . Supplementing your Original Medicare coverage -LRB- Medicare Parts A & B -RRB- with a Medicare Supplement plan will help you create a very predictable expense structure for your healthcare and allow you to see any doctor you want that accepts Medicare . Any doctor that accepts Medicare will also accept your Medicare Supplement plan . There are 10 different Medicare supplement plans and they are all standardized , meaning a plan F from company A and a plan F from company B feature the EXACT the same benefits . The 10 different plans available are plans A , B , C , D , F , G , K , L , M , and N -LRB- a high-deductible plan F is also available that features a $ 2,140 deductible in 2014 -RRB- . Each plan offers certain benefits some more comprehensive than others . Each plan must cover a core set of benefits -LRB- also known as the basic benefits -RRB- . The basic benefits are : 1 -RRB- Medicare Part A coinsurance plus coverage for 365 additional days after Medicare benefits are used up . 2 -RRB- Medicare Part B coinsurance or copayment 3 -RRB- First 3 pints of blood 4 -RRB- Part A hospice care coinsurance or copayment There 's a total of 9 benefits that can be secured . The other 5 benefits are : 1 -RRB- Skilled Nursing Facility Care coinsurance 2 -RRB- Medicare Part A deductible 3 -RRB- Medicare Part B deductible 4 -RRB- Medicare Part B excess charges 5 -RRB- Foreign travel emergency -LRB- up to plan limits -RRB- Each plan features a different structure , Plan F is the most popular plan because it 's the most comprehensive Medigap plan available as it covers all 9 benefits at 100 % . Consult with an experienced broker to review the plans in detail to see which one will best serve your needs . We have an in-depth knowledge of Medigap plans and can provide quotes from multiple carriers . Please let me know if I can be of further assistance . Thanks very much .
Medigap plans -LRB- also known as Medicare supplement plans -RRB- are designed to help seniors who want high quality healthcare and are on Medicare , cover the gap between what hospitals and doctors charge for their services and what Medicare will pay.Health insurance is constantly changing , which can make finding the right plan for you very strenuous . Supplementing your Original Medicare coverage -LRB- Medicare Parts A & B -RRB- with a Medicare Supplement plan will help you create a very predictable expense structure for your healthcare and allow you to see any doctor you want that accepts Medicare . Any doctor that accepts Medicare will also accept your Medicare Supplement plan . There are 10 different Medicare supplement plans and they are all standardized , meaning a plan F from company A and a plan F from company B feature the EXACT the same benefits . The 10 different plans available are plans A , B , C , D , F , G , K , L , M , and N -LRB- a high-deductible plan F is also available that features a $ 2,140 deductible in 2014 -RRB- . Each plan offers certain benefits some more comprehensive than others . Each plan must cover a core set of benefits -LRB- also known as the basic benefits -RRB- . The basic benefits are : 1 -RRB- Medicare Part A coinsurance plus coverage for 365 additional days after Medicare benefits are used up . 2 -RRB- Medicare Part B coinsurance or copayment 3 -RRB- First 3 pints of blood 4 -RRB- Part A hospice care coinsurance or copayment There 's a total of 9 benefits that can be secured . The other 5 benefits are : 1 -RRB- Skilled Nursing Facility Care coinsurance 2 -RRB- Medicare Part A deductible 3 -RRB- Medicare Part B deductible 4 -RRB- Medicare Part B excess charges 5 -RRB- Foreign travel emergency -LRB- up to plan limits -RRB- Each plan features a different structure , Plan F is the most popular plan because it 's the most comprehensive Medigap plan available as it covers all 9 benefits at 100 % . Consult with an experienced broker to review the plans in detail to see which one will best serve your needs . We have an in-depth knowledge of Medigap plans and can provide quotes from multiple carriers . I hope the information is helpful . I have a strong background in senior insurance -LRB- including Medigap plans -RRB- so please feel free to contact me for assistance with your coverage and if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
Medicare supplement plan F is the most popular and most comprehensive of the 10 supplement plans , but also features the highest premiums . If budget is not a major concern , I would recommend going with this plan as it offers the most predictable healthcare expense structure - just about everything in hospital and doctor office visits , tests , and exams are covered at 100 % . Plan N can be a great option as well , especially if your doctors accept assignment -LRB- accepting the Medicare-approved amount as payment in full -RRB- thus not subjecting you to any excess charges -LRB- which plans F and G cover -RRB- . There are 10 different Medicare supplement plans in total and they are all standardized , meaning a plan F from company A and a plan F from company B feature the EXACT same benefits . The 10 different plans available are plans A , B , C , D , F , G , K , L , M , and N. Each plan offers certain benefits some more comprehensive than others . For example , Plan A offers coverage of only the basic benefits of Medicare Supplement Insurance , while Plan F is the most comprehensive . Plan F also offers a high-deductible version of the plan it is the only plan that offers this feature . Under a high-deductible plan F -LRB- also referred to as Hi-F -RRB- , the insured must pay for Medicare-covered costs up to the years deductible amount $ 2,140 in 2014 before the supplement plan pays anything . The benefit of the high-deductible plan F is that it offers the insured a much lower monthly premium . In short , each plan has it 's own pros and cons and what may be suitable for you may not be for someone else . Independent agent can provide you with the rates for multiple companies and help get you set up with the plan that 's right for you . Carriers try to differentiate themselves by competing on rates and what , if any , value-added services they offer . Value-added services can be things like a help line , discounts for services -LRB- such as dental and vision - not dental and vision insurance , just discounts off the full price -RRB- , and others . Please let me know if you have any other questions . Thanks !
There are 10 standardized Medigap Plans available to Medicare Beneficiaries . They include Plan A , B , C , D , F , G , K , L , M , N with Plan F also offering a high-deductible plan . The most popular standardized Medigap Plans are F , G , and N. Plan F will cover all your Medicare approved charges . You do not have to pay any co-pays , co-insurance or deductibles for Medicare covered costs . If you choose the high-deductible Plan F , you must pay for Medicare covered costs up to the deductible amount of $ 2,140 -LRB- 2014 -RRB- before your Medigap Plan F will pay anything . Plan G will cover all your Medicare approved charges after you have satisfied the annual Part B deductible of $ 147 -LRB- 2014 -RRB- . Once the small deductible is met , Medigap Plan G acts like Plan F and covers the co-pays , co-insurance and deductibles that Original Medicare does not cover . Plan N covers 100 % of the Part B co-insurance , except for a small co-pay for some office visits -LRB- never more than $ 20 per visit -RRB- and up to a co-pay of $ 50 for emergency room visits -LRB- waived if admitted as an inpatient -RRB- . You are also responsible for satisfying the annual Part B deductible of $ 147 -LRB- 2014 -RRB- and any Medicare Part B Excess Charges . If you have further questions regarding your specific situation , please feel free to contact me .
In short , Part A is your hospital insurance and Part B is your physician insurance . Excess charges falls under what a doctor can bill you for . If you read an outline of coverage of a plan F or a plan G -LRB- whichever carrier 's outline you want to look at does n't matter - the plans are standardized so the input is the same regardless of company -RRB- , you will see that Medicare Part A pays all but specified amounts during a hospital stay -LRB- as an inpatient -RRB- as follows : 1 -RRB- First 60 days - Medicare Part A pays for all but $ 1,260 . Medigap plan F and G pay the deductible for you . 2 -RRB- Days 61-90 - Medicare Part A pays for all but $ 315 a day . Medigap plan F and G pay the $ 315 a day for you -LRB- 30 days totals up to $ 9,450 -RRB- . 3 -RRB- Days 91 + -LRB- while using 60 lifetime reserve days -RRB- - Medicare Part A pays for all but $ 630 a day . Medigap plan F and G pay the $ 630 a day -LRB- 60 reserve days totals up to $ 37,800 -RRB- . 4 -RRB- Once lifetime reserve days are used , additional 365 days - Medicare Part A pays $ 0 . Medigap plan F and G pay 100 % of Medicare-eligible expenses up to an additional 365 days . 5 -RRB- Beyond the additional 365 days - Medicare Part A pays $ 0 . * Note - that 's per benefit period ! A benefit period begins on the first day you receive services as an INPATIENT and ends after you 've been out of the hospital for at least 60 days in a row . It 's possible to have more than one benefit period in the span of a year . Inpatient stay coverage per benefit period includes semi-private room and board , general nursing , and miscellaneous services and supplies . Please also note , you can be in a hospital for a day or two and still be listed as an outpatient . If you 're unsure , you should ask your doctor if you 're listed as an inpatient or outpatient in their system . Unless you 're admitted as an inpatient , you 're being treated as an outpatient which is where your Medicare Part B coverage comes into play . Part B pays about 80 % of medical expenses leaving you responsible for the other 20 % -LRB- covered by plans F and G -RRB- . If a doctor accepts Medicare assignment , they accept the Medicare-approved amount as payment in full . If they do not accept Medicare assignment , they can bill you an excess charge - which are covered by plans F and G . If you live in Connecticut , Massachusetts , Minnesota , New York , Ohio , Pennsylvania , Rhode Island , or Vermont , you can not be charged excess charges by a doctor due to the Medicare Overcharge Measure laws . I hope the information is helpful - please feel free to contact me for help with your coverage and if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
Medicare Supplement Plan F -LRB- Medigap -RRB- is the most comprehensive coverage available for seniors . There are items not covered or partially covered . If Medicare approves treatment , Medigap Plan F will cover copays , co-insurance and deductibles related to that specific item . However , if any treatment is denied coverage by Medicare , that particular treatment would not be covered by Medigap Plan F. Simply put , Plan F follows the lead of approved Medicare coverage . Items typically not covered by Plan F include acupuncture , dental work , vision exams and skilled nursing care beyond the first 100 days . There is also a limit on the total number of hospitalization days covered - it 's around 455 days under Plan F . If you are hospitalized and require blood , Plan F covers the first 3 pints . If you are travelling abroad and have a medical emergency , Plan F usually requires you to pay a $ 250 deductible but will cover up to $ 50,000 . Drug coverage is not included with Plan F -LRB- that would be Plan D -RRB- .
The question is difficult to answer because of the amount of variables involved but I will try to cover all the bases . If you want a Medicare supplement that is going to cover all Medical expenses approved but not covered in full by Medicare , you would go with a plan G or Plan F. Plan G has a deductible of $ 166 but after it has been met , it is the same as a plan F which covers the $ 166 Part B deductible . So for full coverage , go with Plan F or G but they will cost you the most a well . If you have a high amount of medical care , the math will work on these plans . If you do not utilize a lot of care , you will be spending the money on premium every month but getting your moneys worth out of it . For those that have low/basic medical needs , you could try a lower cost option . Plans K , L and High F supplements can all be good options to consider . Like all Medicare supplements , you can still go to any doctor that accepts Medicare when using these plans . Depending on the state you live in and company you choose the price points will vary between the three plans . In a nutshell here is what they cover . Plan L - covers 75 % of the costs not covered by Original Medicare Plan K - covers 50 % of the costs not covered by Original Medicare High F - covers 100 % of costs not covered by Medicare after a deductible of $ 2,180 has been met . The deductible is not a true deductible but means that you only pay the deductibles and copays not covered by original Medicare . Original Medicare still provides the benefits you would normally get but the High F plan does not cover the left over costs until the $ 2,180 has been met . High F usually has the lowest price point of the three plans . In some states , the premium can be as low as $ 28 a month for the plan . Given it is a supplement , you would still need to buy a drug plan if you wanted RX coverage .
Medigap plans -LRB- commonly referred to as Medicare supplement plans -RRB- are supplemental insurance plans that cover all or a portion of the gaps in Original Medicare -LRB- depending on which Medigap plan you buy -RRB- . They are designed to help seniors who want high quality healthcare and are on Medicare , cover the gap between what hospitals and doctors charge for their services and what Medicare will pay . Health insurance is constantly changing , which can make finding the right plan for you very strenuous . Supplementing your Original Medicare coverage -LRB- Medicare Parts A & B -RRB- with a Medicare Supplement plan will help you create a very predictable expense structure for your healthcare and allow you to see any doctor you want that accepts Medicare . Any doctor that accepts Medicare will also accept your Medicare Supplement plan . There are 10 different Medicare supplement plans and they are all standardized , meaning a plan F from company A and a plan F from company B feature the EXACT same benefits . The 10 different plans available are plans A , B , C , D , F , G , K , L , M , and N -LRB- a high-deductible plan F is also available that features a $ 2,140 deductible in 2014 - the trade-off being a substantially reduced premium -RRB- . Each plan offers certain benefits some more comprehensive than others . Each plan must cover a core set of benefits -LRB- also known as the basic benefits -RRB- . The basic benefits are 1 -RRB- Medicare Part A coinsurance plus coverage for 365 additional days after Medicare benefits are used up . 2 -RRB- Medicare Part B coinsurance or copayment 3 -RRB- First 3 pints of blood 4 -RRB- Part A hospice care coinsurance or copayment There 's a total of 9 benefits that can be secured . The other 5 benefits available under a Medigap plan are : 1 -RRB- Skilled Nursing Facility Care coinsurance 2 -RRB- Medicare Part A deductible 3 -RRB- Medicare Part B deductible 4 -RRB- Medicare Part B excess charges 5 -RRB- Foreign travel emergency -LRB- up to plan limits -RRB- Each plan features a different structure , Each plan covers a different combination of these 9 benefits -LRB- some of the plans feature coinsurance or copayments for certain benefits -RRB- . If cost is not a major factor for you , Plan F will be the recommended choice because it covers all 9 benefits at 100 % - it 's the most popular plan by far . If you 're looking to keep your costs down , but still have very comprehensive coverage , you may want to look at plans C , G , and N as well . When you 're looking to buy a Medigap plan , you should consult with an independent Medigap insurance agent to review the plans in detail to see which one will best serve your needs , help you identify all of the carriers offering Medigap plans in your zip code , and which one will be able to offer the coverage to you at the lowest cost -LRB- the plans are standardized so the biggest difference between them is price - the benefits are exactly the same regardless of the carrier you have the Medigap plan through -RRB- . I hope the information is helpful - please feel free to contact me for assistance with your Medigap coverage needs , including quotes and plan comparisons , and if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
Medigap plans -LRB- commonly referred to as Medicare supplement plans -RRB- are designed to help seniors who want high quality healthcare and are on Medicare , cover the gap between what hospitals and doctors charge for their services and what Medicare will pay.Health insurance is constantly changing , which can make finding the right plan for you very strenuous . Supplementing your Original Medicare coverage -LRB- Medicare Parts A & B -RRB- with a Medicare Supplement plan will help you create a very predictable expense structure for your healthcare and allow you to see any doctor you want that accepts Medicare . Any doctor that accepts Medicare will also accept your Medicare Supplement plan . There are 10 different Medicare supplement plans and they are all standardized , meaning a plan F from company A and a plan F from company B feature the EXACT same benefits . The 10 different plans available are plans A , B , C , D , F , G , K , L , M , and N -LRB- a high-deductible plan F is also available that features a $ 2,140 deductible in 2014 - the trade-off being a substantially reduced premium -RRB- . Each plan offers certain benefits some more comprehensive than others . Each plan must cover a core set of benefits -LRB- also known as the basic benefits -RRB- . The basic benefits are : 1 -RRB- Medicare Part A coinsurance plus coverage for 365 additional days after Medicare benefits are used up . 2 -RRB- Medicare Part B coinsurance or copayment 3 -RRB- First 3 pints of blood 4 -RRB- Part A hospice care coinsurance or copayment There 's a total of 9 benefits that can be secured . The other 5 benefits available under a Medigap plan are : 1 -RRB- Skilled Nursing Facility Care coinsurance 2 -RRB- Medicare Part A deductible 3 -RRB- Medicare Part B deductible 4 -RRB- Medicare Part B excess charges 5 -RRB- Foreign travel emergency -LRB- up to plan limits -RRB- Each plan features a different structure , Each plan covers a different combination of these 9 benefits -LRB- some of the plans feature coinsurance or copayments for certain benefits -RRB- . If cost is not a major factor for you , Plan F will be the recommended choice because it covers all 9 benefits at 100 % - it 's the most popular plan by far . If you 're looking to keep your costs down , but still have very comprehensive coverage , you may want to look at plans C , G , and N as well . When you 're looking to buy a Medigap plan , you should consult with an independent Medigap insurance agent to review the plans in detail to see which one will best serve your needs , help you identify all of the carriers offering Medigap plans in your zip code , and which one will be able to offer the coverage to you at the lowest cost -LRB- the plans are standardized so the biggest difference between them is price - the benefits are exactly the same regardless of the carrier you have the Medigap plan through -RRB- . I hope the information is helpful - please feel free to contact me for assistance with your Medigap coverage needs , including quotes and plan comparisons , and if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
Medigap plans -LRB- commonly referred to as Medicare supplement plans -RRB- are designed to help seniors who want high quality healthcare and are on Medicare , cover the gap between what hospitals and doctors charge for their services and what Medicare will pay . Health insurance is constantly changing , which can make finding the right plan for you very strenuous . Supplementing your Original Medicare coverage -LRB- Medicare Parts A & B -RRB- with a Medicare Supplement plan will help you create a very predictable expense structure for your healthcare and allow you to see any doctor you want that accepts Medicare . Any doctor that accepts Medicare will also accept your Medicare Supplement plan . There are 10 different Medicare supplement plans and they are all standardized , meaning a plan F from company A and a plan F from company B feature the EXACT same benefits . The 10 different plans available are plans A , B , C , D , F , G , K , L , M , and N -LRB- a high-deductible plan F is also available that features a $ 2,140 deductible in 2014 - the trade-off being a substantially reduced premium -RRB- . Each plan offers certain benefits some more comprehensive than others . Each plan must cover a core set of benefits -LRB- also known as the basic benefits -RRB- . The basic benefits are : 1 -RRB- Medicare Part A coinsurance plus coverage for 365 additional days after Medicare benefits are used up . 2 -RRB- Medicare Part B coinsurance or copayment 3 -RRB- First 3 pints of blood 4 -RRB- Part A hospice care coinsurance or copayment There 's a total of 9 benefits that can be secured . The other 5 benefits available under a Medigap plan are : 1 -RRB- Skilled Nursing Facility Care coinsurance 2 -RRB- Medicare Part A deductible 3 -RRB- Medicare Part B deductible 4 -RRB- Medicare Part B excess charges 5 -RRB- Foreign travel emergency -LRB- up to plan limits -RRB- Each plan features a different structure , Each plan covers a different combination of these 9 benefits -LRB- some of the plans feature coinsurance or copayments for certain benefits -RRB- . If cost is not a major factor for you , Plan F will be the recommended choice because it covers all 9 benefits at 100 % - it 's the most popular plan by far . If you 're looking to keep your costs down , but still have very comprehensive coverage , you may want to look at plans C , G , and N as well . When you 're looking to buy a Medigap plan , you should consult with an independent Medigap insurance agent to review the plans in detail to see which one will best serve your needs , help you identify all of the carriers offering Medigap plans in your zip code , and which one will be able to offer the coverage to you at the lowest cost -LRB- the plans are standardized so the biggest difference between them is price - the benefits are exactly the same regardless of the carrier you have the Medigap plan through -RRB- . I hope the information is helpful - please feel free to contact me for assistance with your Medigap coverage needs , including quotes and plan comparisons , and if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
Medigap plans -LRB- commonly referred to as Medicare supplement plans -RRB- are designed to help seniors who want high quality healthcare and are on Medicare , cover the gap between what hospitals and doctors charge for their services and what Medicare will pay . Health insurance is constantly changing , which can make finding the right plan for you very strenuous . Supplementing your Original Medicare coverage -LRB- Medicare Parts A & B -RRB- with a Medicare Supplement plan will help you create a very predictable expense structure for your healthcare and allow you to see any doctor you want that accepts Medicare . Any doctor that accepts Medicare will also accept your Medicare Supplement plan . There are 10 different Medicare supplement plans and they are all standardized , meaning a plan F from company A and a plan F from company B feature the EXACT same benefits . The 10 different plans available are plans A , B , C , D , F , G , K , L , M , and N -LRB- a high-deductible plan F is also available that features a $ 2,140 deductible in 2014 - the trade-off being a substantially reduced premium -RRB- . Each plan offers certain benefits some more comprehensive than others . Each plan must cover a core set of benefits -LRB- also known as the basic benefits -RRB- . The basic benefits are : 1 -RRB- Medicare Part A coinsurance plus coverage for 365 additional days after Medicare benefits are used up . 2 -RRB- Medicare Part B coinsurance or copayment 3 -RRB- First 3 pints of blood 4 -RRB- Part A hospice care coinsurance or copayment There 's a total of 9 benefits that can be secured . The other 5 benefits available under a Medigap plan are : 1 -RRB- Skilled Nursing Facility Care coinsurance 2 -RRB- Medicare Part A deductible 3 -RRB- Medicare Part B deductible 4 -RRB- Medicare Part B excess charges 5 -RRB- Foreign travel emergency -LRB- up to plan limits -RRB- Each plan features a different structure , Each plan covers a different combination of these 9 benefits -LRB- some of the plans feature coinsurance or copayments for certain benefits -RRB- . If cost is not a major factor for you , Plan F will be the recommended choice because it covers all 9 benefits at 100 % - it 's the most popular plan by far . If you 're looking to keep your costs down , but still have very comprehensive coverage , you may want to look at plans C , G , and N as well . Consult with an experienced broker to review the plans in detail to see which one will best serve your needs . We have an in-depth knowledge of Medigap plans , provide quotes from multiple carriers , and help you determine the one that 's going to be most suitable to your needs and budget . Please feel free to contact me for help or if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
Medigap plans -LRB- commonly referred to as Medicare supplement plans -RRB- are designed to help seniors who want high quality healthcare and are on Medicare , cover the gap between what hospitals and doctors charge for their services and what Medicare will pay . Health insurance is constantly changing , which can make finding the right plan for you very strenuous . Supplementing your Original Medicare coverage -LRB- Medicare Parts A & B -RRB- with a Medicare Supplement plan will help you create a very predictable expense structure for your healthcare and allow you to see any doctor you want that accepts Medicare . Any doctor that accepts Medicare will also accept your Medicare Supplement plan . There are 10 different Medicare supplement plans and they are all standardized , meaning a plan F from company A and a plan F from company B feature the EXACT same benefits . The 10 different plans available are plans A , B , C , D , F , G , K , L , M , and N -LRB- a high-deductible plan F is also available that features a $ 2,140 deductible in 2014 - the trade-off being a substantially reduced premium -RRB- . Each plan offers certain benefits some more comprehensive than others . Each plan must cover a core set of benefits -LRB- also known as the basic benefits -RRB- . The basic benefits are : 1 -RRB- Medicare Part A coinsurance plus coverage for 365 additional days after Medicare benefits are used up . 2 -RRB- Medicare Part B coinsurance or copayment 3 -RRB- First 3 pints of blood 4 -RRB- Part A hospice care coinsurance or copayment There 's a total of 9 benefits that can be secured . The other 5 benefits available under a Medigap plan are : 1 -RRB- Skilled Nursing Facility Care coinsurance 2 -RRB- Medicare Part A deductible 3 -RRB- Medicare Part B deductible 4 -RRB- Medicare Part B excess charges 5 -RRB- Foreign travel emergency -LRB- up to plan limits -RRB- Each plan features a different structure , Each plan covers a different combination of these 9 benefits -LRB- some of the plans feature coinsurance or copayments for certain benefits -RRB- . If cost is not a major factor for you , Plan F will be the recommended choice because it covers all 9 benefits at 100 % - it 's the most popular plan by far . If you 're looking to keep your costs down , but still have very comprehensive coverage , you may want to look at plans C , G , and N as well . Consult with an experienced broker to review the plans in detail to see which one will best serve your needs . We have an in-depth knowledge of Medigap plans , provide quotes from multiple carriers , and help you determine the one that 's going to be most suitable to your needs and budget . Please let me know if I can be of further assistance . Thanks very much .
Medigap plans -LRB- commonly referred to as Medicare supplement plans -RRB- are designed to help seniors who want high quality healthcare and are on Medicare , cover the gap between what hospitals and doctors charge for their services and what Medicare will pay . Health insurance is constantly changing , which can make finding the right plan for you very strenuous . Supplementing your Original Medicare coverage -LRB- Medicare Parts A & B -RRB- with a Medicare Supplement plan will help you create a very predictable expense structure for your healthcare and allow you to see any doctor you want that accepts Medicare . Any doctor that accepts Medicare will also accept your Medicare Supplement plan . There are 10 different Medicare supplement plans and they are all standardized , meaning a plan F from company A and a plan F from company B feature the EXACT same benefits . The 10 different plans available are plans A , B , C , D , F , G , K , L , M , and N -LRB- a high-deductible plan F is also available that features a $ 2,140 deductible in 2014 - the trade-off being a substantially reduced premium -RRB- . Each plan offers certain benefits some more comprehensive than others . Each plan must cover a core set of benefits -LRB- also known as the basic benefits -RRB- . The basic benefits are : 1 -RRB- Medicare Part A coinsurance plus coverage for 365 additional days after Medicare benefits are used up . 2 -RRB- Medicare Part B coinsurance or copayment 3 -RRB- First 3 pints of blood 4 -RRB- Part A hospice care coinsurance or copayment There 's a total of 9 benefits that can be secured . The other 5 benefits available under a Medigap plan are : 1 -RRB- Skilled Nursing Facility Care coinsurance 2 -RRB- Medicare Part A deductible 3 -RRB- Medicare Part B deductible 4 -RRB- Medicare Part B excess charges 5 -RRB- Foreign travel emergency -LRB- up to plan limits -RRB- Each plan features a different structure , Each plan covers a different combination of these 9 benefits -LRB- some of the plans feature coinsurance or copayments for certain benefits -RRB- . If cost is not a major factor for you , Plan F will be the recommended choice because it covers all 9 benefits at 100 % - it 's the most popular plan by far . If you 're looking to keep your costs down , but still have very comprehensive coverage , you may want to look at plans C , G , and N as well . Consult with an experienced broker to review the plans in detail to see which one will best serve your needs . We have an in-depth knowledge of Medigap plans , provide quotes from multiple carriers , and can help you determine the one that 's going to be most suitable to your needs and budget . Please feel free to contact me for help or if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
Medigap plans -LRB- commonly referred to as Medicare supplement plans -RRB- are designed to help seniors who want high quality healthcare and are on Medicare , cover the gap between what hospitals and doctors charge for their services and what Medicare will pay.Health insurance is constantly changing , which can make finding the right plan for you very strenuous . Supplementing your Original Medicare coverage -LRB- Medicare Parts A & B -RRB- with a Medicare Supplement plan will help you create a very predictable expense structure for your healthcare and allow you to see any doctor you want that accepts Medicare . Any doctor that accepts Medicare will also accept your Medicare Supplement plan . There are 10 different Medicare supplement plans and they are all standardized , meaning a plan F from company A and a plan F from company B feature the EXACT same benefits . The 10 different plans available are plans A , B , C , D , F , G , K , L , M , and N -LRB- a high-deductible plan F is also available that features a $ 2,140 deductible in 2014 - the trade-off being a substantially reduced premium -RRB- . Each plan offers certain benefits some more comprehensive than others . Each plan must cover a core set of benefits -LRB- also known as the basic benefits -RRB- . The basic benefits are 1 -RRB- Medicare Part A coinsurance plus coverage for 365 additional days after Medicare benefitsare used up . 2 -RRB- Medicare Part B coinsurance or copayment 3 -RRB- First 3 pints of blood 4 -RRB- Part A hospice care coinsurance or copayment There 's a total of 9 benefits that can be secured . The other 5 benefits available under a Medigap plan are : 1 -RRB- Skilled Nursing Facility Care coinsurance 2 -RRB- Medicare Part A deductible 3 -RRB- Medicare Part B deductible 4 -RRB- Medicare Part B excess charges 5 -RRB- Foreign travel emergency -LRB- up to plan limits -RRB- Each plan features a different structure , Each plan covers a different combination of these 9 benefits -LRB- some of the plans feature coinsurance or copayments for certain benefits -RRB- . If cost is not a major factor for you , Plan F will be the recommended choice because it covers all 9 benefits at 100 % - it 's the most popular plan by far . If you 're looking to keep your costs down , but still have very comprehensive coverage , you may want to look at plans C , G , and N as well . When you 're looking to buy a Medigap plan , you should consult with an independent Medigap insurance agent to review the plans in detail to see which one will best serve your needs , help you identify all of the carriers offering Medigap plans in your zip code , and which one will be able to offer the coverage to you at the lowest cost -LRB- the plans are standardized so the biggest difference between them is price - the benefits are exactly the same regardless of the carrier you have the Medigap plan through -RRB- . I hope the information is helpful - please feel free to contact me for assistance with your Medigap coverage needs , including quotes and plan comparisons , and if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
end question
start question
home-insurance
Who Is Covered By Homeowners Insurance ?
The definition of insured is as follows : The named insured , and if residents of the household , the spouse , relatives and any other person under the age of 18 in the insureds care or in the care of relatives . Remember every policy is different . Please read your policy completely to understand the coverage provided and any exclusions that there may be or contact your local agent to have them go over the policy with you .
A home is the largest single purchase that most people make in their lifetime . There are two characteristics that make home ownership difficult . The first is that the ownership of a home creates a situation of responsibility where you become responsible for personal injury and property damage that comes out of home ownership . For example , someone enters you home , slips on a rug and falls . Injuries can be minor or severe . It is quite possible that you could be sued to recover the loss sustained by the person who fell . This is a liability loss . The second is that you have an enormous amount of your money and the mortgage companys money invested in the home . It is usually a multiple of your annual income and would represent a great financial loss were the home to be destroyed . Your mortgage company is particularly concerned about losing their collateral and will require hazard insurance to protect their interests to the greatest extent possible . The list of things that could happen to damage a residence is lengthy but most of the causes or perils are contained in the HO-3 Homeowners policy . There are notable exceptions which should be restated . You are probably not covered for damage caused by earthquake or flood . These coverages are available but in slightly different forms and often with different policies . Because an individual can not sustain the personal loss of a law suit or the destruction of their property they turn to an insurance company to pool their risk with hundreds of thousands of other residences . This recognizes the probability of damage and spreads that risk over a large number of residences . The insurance company charges enough to be able to pay those losses when they occur . Your state insurance commissioner is very concerned about the adequacy of the insurance companies admitted in your state . While there are various types of home insurance policies , I will confine my comments to the most common , the HO-3 Homeowners policy . Coverage A in a homeowners policy covers your residence . The coverage includes additional items but does not cover land or water . It doesnt cover trees except as covered in incidental coverages . Coverage B covers related structures on the property . It has the same restrictions as Coverage A and doesnt cover any business structures , except for a residence on the property that you lease to others . It covers you garage Coverage C covers the personal property that you either own or are responsible for . This is a very important coverage and contains internal limits on selected classes of property such as money , securities , jewelry , guns and watercraft . Misunderstandings often arise about this coverage and it should be discussed thoroughly with your insurance agent . Modifications of this coverage are relatively inexpensive and an unpaid claim is an expensive way to discover that you werent adequately covered . Coverage D pays the necessary and reasonable increase in living cost you incur when your household meets with an insured loss . The company will try to get you back into your residence as quickly as possible but will make sure that you are able to maintain your normal standard of living during the repairs . Coverage D also covers the loss of rents you might experience in the event of a covered loss . If you have an apartment on the premises and it is damaged by a covered loss , this section would apply . There are other limits and extensions in this section that require your attention if you are leasing property . There are number of ancillary coverages including credit cards , trees , fire department charges , debris removal , emergency removal of covered property and grave markers . There are several pages of definitions and exclusions which should be read . Most confusion arising from a homeowners policy come from this part of the policy . Many people think that a homeowners policy pays for routine maintenance or deterioration . Coverage L covers personal liability and provides that the company will pay up to the limits for expense that you are liable for because of bodily injury or property damage that happens on your premises . Coverage M covers medical payments to others and provides necessary medial expenses if they are incurred on your property and result in bodily injury . There are several pages of definitions and limitations on liability coverage . The policy then defines your responsibilities . You must notify the company of a loss , you must cooperate and many other responsibilities . At the back of the policy are a number of endorsements which changes the policy . These apply to specific types of property such as trading cards , animals , a roof and others . Together the HO-3 Homeowners policy is a package of protection that is sufficiently broad to meet the requirements of both lenders and homeowners . Special additional coverages are offered and should be considered . Many of these additional coverages can be included in the basic policy .
Insurance companies offer homeowners ' insurance policies to people who own and occupy their residence . Once foreclosure occurs , you may occupy your residence but you no longer own it . If you are allowed to remain in the home for a period of time , you may be able to contact your insurer , explain the circumstances and have your policy amended to a Tenant Homeowner form . Tenant homeowner policies are issued to people who occupy a residence but do n't own it . The coverage is similar to homeowners ' insurance except it does n't cover the structure . It covers certain damage to your personal property , additional living expenses you may incur should your home be damaged and your have to live in temporary quarters while it is being repaired and certain personal liability exposures . You may need to adjust the amount of insurance on your personal property be consistent with what it would cost you to replace all your personal things . If you move to a rented home or apartment , you may be able to amend your homeowners ' policy to a Tenant Homeowners ' form and amend the address to that of your new residence .
The annual premium for a homeowners insurance policy is an individual computation because the policy itself is tailored to the specific requirements of the named insured and the property being covered . Even though premiums and coverages may be similar in a neighborhood with similar homes , there will usually be peculiarities that will make most of them somewhat different . Every home has a fire rating . That fire rating is based upon proximity to a manned fire station and adequate water . Those ratings are published and used by most insurance companies . The fire rating is often a mystery to homeowners because they rely upon the fire station down the road one mile , however , their home is not in the district covered by that fire station . There are complicated agreements between fire districts that allow them to cross boundaries and assist in fires but each has a primary area of coverage that always receives priority . Homeowners often rely upon standing bodies of water and consider them adequate for firefighting . Again , that is a matter of evaluation and does enter into the fire rating . However , a swimming pool will not necessarily improve the fire rating of a home . Insurance companies mine the mountains of information available on losses and can identify the loss differences based upon territories . These territories are usually bounded by zip codes . They become a part of the rating process that determines the premium charged for coverage . The major determinant in the development of the premium for a homeowners policy is the cost of rebuilding the residence . Because a homeowners policy is based upon a formula , this amount drives the amount of coverages extended to personal property and non-attached structures on the property . This figure is determined , generally , by an outside evaluation system . Frequently the cost of rebuilding the residence doesnt match the price paid for the house or the estimated value of the house . While this is a source of consternation it is the cost of rebuilding the residence that guides the limits of the policy . There are certain risks that are excluded or limited . Coverage for some of these can be purchased in the homeowners policy . There might be a limit on the coverage for guns , jewelry , furs , currency and art . Some of this coverage can be purchased . There are exclusions for flood and earthquake and limited earthquake coverage is usually available for purchase . Flood insurance is almost always a separate policy . An often overlooked coverage is sewer backup . This is excluded in most policies but coverage can be purchased . Another is law and ordinance . The additional cost of repairing a house caused by changes in laws and ordinances is not covered in a normal policy but that coverage can be purchased . Liability insurance is the second part of a homeowners policy and could be the most important . The coverage extends to claims of personal injury and property damage and covers a wide range of scenarios . The homeowner can select the limit of coverage and this affects the premium . This is a place where a homeowner can be penny-wise and pound foolish . You can not have too much liability insurance . The computation for a homeowners premium is complicated . Some of the pricing is your individual choices and preference . Consult with a licensed agent for advice as choosing incorrect limits can lead to extreme displeasure at the time of a claim .
The most expensive mistake a homeowner can make is to be underinsured . Regardless of what the premiums were , a single high value loss that exceeds the limits of the policy can make those saving immaterial . Setting adequate limits is absolutely crucial . The person that can help set appropriate limits is a reliable insurance agent . This is a far greater problem than many think . The primary place where this shows up is having inadequate liability limits . Your homeowners policy provides liability coverage for personal injury and property damage law suits . The company pays all costs for a lawsuit up to the limits of the policy . After that the homeowner is facing the lawsuit alone . Most companies do not offer adequate liability limits and most policyholders select limits that are lower than the maximum offered by the company . An umbrella policy is necessary for most homeowners . The second area that is often underinsured is valuable collections . The homeowners policy has internal limits for recovery on certain items . Most homeowner dont know that their inherited sterling silver is woefully underinsured . They dont understand that those guns in the cabinet could be destroyed and they would only get a fraction of their value . The same is true of jewelry , a coin collection , and many other items . This is all detailed inside the policy , but few homeowners ever read their policy . Some people continue to underinsure their structure . While not as common it is an increasing phenomenon . A homeowner will improve the home and never inform the company or agent . In the event of a loss the amount of coverage might not return the home to its updated glory . This coverage is really inexpensive , however a loss can be paralyzing . Some homeowners have multiple homes . The second homes are often in hazardous areas , such as lakefront , beach front and mountain property . The cost of replacing one of these homes can exceed the insured value because of inflated reconstruction costs . If a forest fire sweeps through some summer cottages , there will be a great demand for contractors to do the work and there will also be bidding for materials . It can get ugly . So adequate insurance is the first step , the second step is to focus on the policy itself . Homeowners can often save significant money by increasing the deductibles on their policies . The deductible should be set at the amount of loss that could be absorbed without serious disruption to the family finances . That is often more than the deductible in the policy . Companies traditionally offer discounts if coverages are packaged . Some companies cover a wide range of policies and by bringing those to a single carrier premium savings can often be realized . This is particularly true if you own another residence that you lease to someone else . Often extending liability coverage from you homeowners policy will save you money . Companies often give discounts for loss prevention . The most common is the central station monitored alarm systems . While companies are rarely as generous as the alarm sales people indicate , there are savings to be had by simply providing a certificate of installation . Sometimes the homeowners policy will be modified if substantial rehabilitation is done to the home . You would need to talk to your agent about this . You could also discuss the jewelry insurance if the jewelry is most often located in a safe deposit at the bank .
Most homeowners insurance policies provide some coverage for loss assessments due to a covered loss . If your homeowners association community charges you an assessment for damage that would be covered by homeowners insurance then you can submit a claim for reimbursement . For example , a community here in Richmond , Virgina recently assessed all homeowners $ 3,000 for damage to the pool house due to a fallen tree . My client 's home policy provided loss assessment coverage up to $ 5,000 and since this type of loss is covered on his homeowners insurance he was fully reimbursed less his deductible . Loss assessment coverage does NOT reimburse homeowners for maintenance fees . If your association board votes to paint a build or do any kind of maintenance work this cost is not covered .
-- > Normal 0 My response to that question would be a little different . Most homeowner and tenant-homeowner -LRB- Renter -RRB- type policies may cover certain types of damage to your property but most if not all will include a Water Damage exclusion . That exclusion says , in so many words , we dont cover you for a loss caused directly or indirectly by water damage . Then it defines water damage to include flood , surface water , overflow of a body of water , back up of sewers or drains , water which seeps or leaks through a foundation and a few other things . So I guess it would be fair to say if water is on the ground and somehow it gets into your home and causes damage , chances are pretty good your homeowners coverage will not cover it . Its also true ; you can purchase a separate government supported Flood insurance policy . But that Flood policy will only cover you for certain types of water damage . Flood policies define a flood only to mean an inundation of two or more acres of normally dry land or two or more properties , one of which is yours . So even if you have homeowners and flood insurance , there will still be certain types of water damage you wont be covered for . I support homeowners considering the purchase of flood insurance . Just make sure you know what this coverage is or is not going to do for you . Its not going to cover you for all types of ground water entering your home .
The answer here is `` maybe '' . It really depends upon the situation and the coverage . In general , if you consider the same house and the same coverage , the homeowners coverage will cost you less . let 's start with some terms . In the industry , we usually call landlord insurance either dwelling fire , or a dwelling policy . It points to the difference between this and a homeowners policy . A homeowners policy has 6 coverages : A. Dwelling - the structure B . Other Structures - detached garages , shed 's , pole barns , etc. . C. Personal Property - Your stuff D. Loss of Use - The extra costs you 'll incur if you have to live somewhere while your home is repaired E. Personal Liability - Protects you from being sued F. Medical Payments - Pays for injuries that happen on your property without having to be sued . A Dwelling Policy , in general does n't have any coverage C , Personal Property . As a landlord , you 're worried about the building and your liability . Your tenant 's personal property is their responsibility to insure . Dwelling policies are more complicated to put together than homeowners policies but I 'll leave that discussion for another time . Lets talk about why Dwelling Policy usually costs more than a Homeowners policy . With a homeowners policy the insurance company has a greater sense of security because they only have one entity to worry about , the homeowners and their family . They have a financial interest in keeping their home safe , secure , and in good repair . With a rental property , you may have many different tenants occupy that home and they have no financial interest in the home itself . A tenant is much more likely to let things go that may eventually cause a claim . Additionally , with a homeowners policy , the liability is protecting the insured from others , with a dwelling policy , you 're also being protected from the people that actually occupy the home . Now , one last thing to mention . If you 're renting your home and it 's insured on a homeowners policy , change it now . If there 's a claim on the home and the insurance company finds out it 's being rented , they may refuse to pay your claim . Most homeowners policies require the home to be occupied by the owner for coverage to apply . Find a good agent that knows how this works and how to put this coverage together for your situation . It 's much better to know what your coverage is and make choices rather then to think you have coverage you really do n't
Although property coverage under the homeowners form is extremely broad there are special limits to losses of certain types of property and losses under certain conditions . This is particularly true when the property is unusual . There is a special limit of coverage on sports memorabilia and collectors cards . The company will reduce the amount it will pay on this type of loss to a specified amount , usually $ 2500 . One of the problems is establishing the value of these types of items . Another problem is that the items are susceptible to theft and so coverage is routinely denied if the sports memorabilia is in transit or shipped by regular mail . That restriction is waived if they are shipped by registered mail . The company will probably not cover the loss of sports memorabilia if it is located in an unattended vehicle . Finally they will usually limit the loss of a single item . Although a homeowners policy usually provides replacement coverage for the structure of the home it is frequently subject to a special limit for the roof . This special limit affects the homeowners recovery at the time of loss to the actual cash value of the roof if it is more than a given age such as ten years . Water damage is often understood to be flood damage but there are types of water damage that can occur inside the home that are also excluded or have special limits . The first point to make is that a homeowner might think that wind-blown water is covered because wind damage is covered . This is specifically excluded in most policies . Also excluded is water or sewage which backs up through sewers or drains . Another water exclusion is water which comes from below the surface of the ground and this damage is often seen in sidewalks , driveways , foundations and swimming pools . A final point is that other materials that are carried along by water are also excluded . There are special limits that govern recovery of water damage losses if the homeowner doesnt take prompt steps to stop the damage , or waits a long time to initiate repairs . Many companies have special limit that affect certain breeds of animals . These limits apply to personal injury particularly . Specified breeds that are frequently excluded are pit bulls , Doberman pinschers , and Rottweilers . However , if the homeowner has an animal with a history of biting , losses arising from the actions of that animal can also be excluded . Regardless of breed many insurers have a special limit on the losses that they will pay for personal injury , frequently $ 25,000 per occurrence . Under some circumstances the insurance companies will allow you to purchase coverage for the items that have been excluded . A good example is the water damage caused by water from outside the plumbing system which backs up through sewers or drains . There is rarely covered if the damage is the result of negligence . My father-in-law removed a toilet . The subsequent flooding was not covered . The most frequently purchased special limit coverage is jewelry coverage . This is a complicated subject but it allows coverage for items that are more valuable than the basic homeowners policy will cover . The same sort of coverage is available for weapons , furs and other high value items which are subject to special limits .
-- > Normal 0 Before college students consider purchasing renters insurance , which I would refer to as tenant-homeowners insurance , I suggest they make the effort to find out if they are already afforded coverage by their familys homeowners or tenant-homeowners insurance . Students who maintain their primary residence as their familys home should be considered insureds under their parents policy . As an insured , their personal property should be covered anywhere in the world and in particular , at a temporary residence . In many cases , the coverage afforded by the familys policy will better than coverage they could buy on their own . Thats the first place I would check and I would get the response confirmed in writing . There may be limitations and deductibles to consider but in most cases the basic coverage should be adequate to cover most situations . Personal liability coverage should be available as well . For students who are no longer residents of their parents household -LRB- emancipated -RRB- or for parents who fear the impact of claims on their coverage , a separate policy could be considered . Insurers may be more reluctant to cover students on their own while at school but coverage should be available . A good place to start may be the parents insurer or agent . Basic policies with a $ 10,000-15 ,000 personal property limit should cost $ 200-300 a year . Coverage will be limited to specifically named perils , deductibles will apply and property will be covered for its actual cash value -LRB- not the cost to replace an old item with a new one -RRB- . If replacement cost coverage is available , I suggest you consider adding it .
Homeowners insurance does not cover the death of the owner . Homeowner 's insurance protects the homeowner from sudden losses relating to the structure itself . Life insurance covers the death of the homeowner . Benefits are paid to the policyholders designated beneficiaries . Often the homeowner is also the primary breadwinner , and that income is needed to continue making mortgage payments , and repairs to the property .
-- > Normal 0 I suggest a different approach to addressing this situation . The only way you could obtain homeowners coverage on a house you do n't live in is to be less than candid on the application . If a problem occurred , you may find yourself and your parents without any coverage . To be eligible for most homeowners policies , a dwelling must be owner - occupied . The policy only covers the dwelling on the residence premises . If the named insured -LRB- you -RRB- dont reside there , the insurance company could deny your claim . Some insurers however will issue homeowners coverage to an insured -LRB- s -RRB- who has a life estate in a property . You could own the property ; grant a life estate to your parents . They could obtain homeowners policy naming them as insured -LRB- s -RRB- and you ; the owner of the property could be included as an additional named insured for your interest in the dwelling and the personal liability insurance . There is a standard endorsement available for that specific purpose . Your parents would be covered for their personal property , additional living expense and personal liability . You would be covered for damage to the dwelling and liability for injury or damage to others arising out of your ownership of the property . In my opinion , this would be the most practical , effective and economical way to address this kind of a situation . It is probably more common than you think .
Renters insurance is definitely cheaper than homeowners insurance . The reason is that renters insurance covers almost everything covered by your homeowners policy except coverage A or the dwelling . The dwelling is covered by the Landlord and the content , liability , medical payment and loss or uses is covered by the tenant . A homeowners policy will cover all these plus the structure and that is why it cost most .
Air Conditioning Units are covered under Homeowners Insurance policies for the perils afforded against by the policy ; i.e. Fire , Wind , Hail , Vandalism etc. . . If the question is regarding repairs and maintenance , the unit would be covered either by a Manufacturer 's Service Contract or a Home Warranty Policy and not your Home Insurance Policy . Homeowners Insurance is designed to protect the home against covered perils to assist the homeowner from financial loss ; it is not designed as a repairs and warranty policy for appliances and general upkeep . Home Warranty policies are available for appliances and repairs of systems in homes ; the homeowner would have to pay a premium for the warranty policy and each service visit would be covered after a deductible which would be agreed upon on the policy .
-- > Normal 0 What makes up a good homeowners insurance policy ? In my mind its a policy that is going to do what you want it to do , at a price you are willing to pay . The problem is , most insurance buyers dont really know what they want the policy to do . Most people seem to want a policy to repair or replace their home if its damaged . To me that means you want an all-risk policy on your home with a Guaranteed Replacement Cost feature , which automatically increases your amount of insurance following a loss , to whatever it takes to rebuild your home if it is damaged and has to be rebuilt . All - Risk type policies will not cover everything but they will specifically state what you are not covered for and you can decide where to go from there . Few policies include the Guaranteed Replacement feature ; so make sure you ask for it . And if the company doesnt offer it , you may want to check with someone else . Most people also want their personal stuff replaced should it be damaged or destroyed . So a good homeowners policy should do that . That means , all-risk replacement cost coverage for all your stuff . If its not all-risk -LRB- often called Special Coverage or Open Perils -RRB- Replacement Cost , you may want to look further . Again , not all types of damage will be covered but the policy will tell you what you are not covered for so you wont have any surprises . Often specific exclusions can be eliminated for an additional cost . Most policies dont include these features so make sure you ask for them if that is the kind of coverage you expect . Good homeowners policies will include coverage for the additional expenses you may incur should your home be damaged and you have to live somewhere else while it is being repaired and a nominal amount of Personal Liability coverage , a good one will have limits not less than $ 300,000 . A good homeowners policy will be offered by a financially strong , at least A-rated insurance company hopefully with a local contact to help you understand what you are getting , makes sure it covers any special situations that make up your life and is there should you have a significant claim . A good homeowners policy is one that doesnt get cancelled the first time you have a claim . Buying insurance on-line may be popular and convenient but you have to know what you are doing . Remember if there is a problem , you are one small policy and they are one big insurance company . It may be a good time to have somebody local on your side .
-- > Normal 0 While I have no intention to question a colleague , Im not sure I would place a Travelers Tenants policy in the Excellent column , good , maybe , but certainly not excellent . The Travelers tenant homeowners policy covers your personal property but limits that coverage to specific named perils . In my opinion , an excellent tenant homeowners policy would cover any direct damage -LRB- except for specific exclusions and limitations -RRB- . The basic Travelers tenants policy covers the insured for the Actual Cash Value of their property . An excellent policy would cover the full replacement cost of covered property , new for old . The Travelers tenant homeowners policy , like many others , covers your personal property but limits theft coverage on Jewelry , Furs or Silver to , I believe , $ 1000 . An excellent policy would have either no limitations or the limits would be no less than $ 5000 in the aggregate for each category . The Travelers liability coverage excludes , as do most other tenants policies , property damage to property in the insureds care , custody or control . Generally that would include property damage to the apartment you are living in . This exclusion would not apply to Fire or Smoke damage but I dont believe water damage to the apartment you rent would be covered by the basic policy . Securing coverage for accidental damage to the apartment they are living in may be a very important coverage for most apartment renters . Obtaining a waiver from your landlord for any damage covered by the landlords insurance may be the best and most economical alternative . If buying coverage on-line or face to face from a local broker , I suggest these questions be raised and addressed .
Homeowners Insurance in all States is designed to protect homes from covered perils which occur on a ` sudden and accidental basis ' . Termite damage does n't occur instantaneously ; it is something that deteriorates over time ; homes which are well maintained , inspected and treated against termites are highly unlikely to become infected or damaged . The same is true regarding dry rot , wet rot and slow and unrepaired water leaks . It is imperative for homes to be well maintained as homeowners insurance is not designed to provide monetary reimbursement for the ongoing upkeep and maintenance of homes ; if this were the case , premium would be much greater than what we pay today . Sudden and Accidental is true regarding any covered incident by the homeowners insurance policy ; covered perils will include for example items such as Fire , Wind , Hail , Water Damage , Burglary etc. . . Each of these items would occur suddenly and accidentally . There is a link providing an online format to obtain a quote and buy home insurance online in multiple States ; may be used by Escrow/Closing Professionals , Mortgage Professionals , Real Estate Agents and directly by Consumers . An exemplary online experience for all ! WEBSITELINK It would be a good idea to obtain a copy of your State 's Homeowners Insurance Form and ask a licensed insurance representative to review the policy form for you and highlight the paragraphs most pertinent to the specific situation . Homeowners insurance coverage forms are not often updated and it may only be necessary to review the main points once to understand the purpose of the policy and coverage afforded .
Damage to a structure from termites , ants and insects in general is not covered under the standard homeowner insurance policy . The underlying theory is that such damage is the result of infestation due to negligence on the part of the homeowner as the proximate cause of the occurrence . The homeowner is obligated to inspect for such damage and remedy the situation accordingly . Homeowner insurance covers structural damage that is sudden and accidental in nature . Infestation does not fit these criteria . Check with a qualified -LRB- recommended -RRB- and fully licensed pest control operation in your area . You may be able to purchase a policy or bond that would cover you for certain types of infestation after they have inspected and possibly treated your residence structure . We are talking about structural damages here . There could be coverage for damages that might occur from a roof collapse , for example , resulting from the infestation , that causes loss to other property within the dwelling . However , the infestation damage itself is not covered .
If a fallen tree , whether your own or your neighbors , has landed in your yard , on car or on your home , you are likely wondering whether your current homeowners insurance policy will cover the repair costs . Damage to your home and its contents , regardless of whether the trees origin was from your own property or a neighboring , is covered under a homeowners policy . For property such as sheds , additions or detached garages , there is generally a maximum amount of coverage offered for fallen tree damage -LRB- i.e. 10 % of your entire propertys value -RRB- . Even though your homeowners insurance policy will cover damage resulting from fallen trees , it is important to keep in mind that you are financially responsible for any applicable policy deductible . For example , if your homeowners insurance policy has a $ 5,000 or $ 10,000 deductible and the total cost of repairs is $ 25,000 , you will be required to pay either $ 5,000 or $ 10,000 out of pocket for the clean-up to be completed . If the fallen tree was from your neighbors yard , it is possible that your insurance company will attempt to get their policy to cover the cost of the damage . In this event , you may be refunded any deductible you paid for the repairs .
Homeowners Insurance will cover any home fixtures against perils covered by the policy ; i.e. Fire , Vandalism , Wind etc. . . If your quetsion refers to the maintenance or repair of your heating system , your question should be referred to your Home Warranty coverage and not your homeowners insurance . In very few cases , homeowners insurance policies may offer a warranty endorsement which can be purchased and added on to your homeowners insurance policy . You must consult your present insurance carrier and inquire as to whether a home warranty endorsement is available and the premium charged .
end question
start question
home-insurance
What Should A Good Home Insurance Policy Cover ?
That is a great question ! The average policy will cover the structures on the property , home , garage , etc. . It will protect against the ` normal ' dangers of fire , wind , hail and lightning . If you live in an area that is prone to flooding , earthquakes , or hurricanes the coverage for these may be included in a rider , or may need to be purchased separately . The policy will also include some coverage against being sued ; It is usually pretty specific in what it will cover , and for how much . I hope that helps , thanks for asking !
A great homeowners insurance policy will protect you in the case of a law suit arising from personal injury or property damage . Companies have a range of limits and I suggest you adopt the highest possible . The same policy will replace your home and contents completely in the case of a loss from a covered peril . Since earthquake and flood are not covered , your policy should either have an endorsement or separate policy that covers these contingencies . There are internal limits on certain types of property . If you have property in the restricted categories your should increase coverage to maximize recovery at the time of loss . Homes still have water back-up problems and require additional expenses to meet codes when repairs are required . These are also coverages that you should take .
-- > Normal 0 What makes up a good homeowners insurance policy ? In my mind its a policy that is going to do what you want it to do , at a price you are willing to pay . The problem is , most insurance buyers dont really know what they want the policy to do . Most people seem to want a policy to repair or replace their home if its damaged . To me that means you want an all-risk policy on your home with a Guaranteed Replacement Cost feature , which automatically increases your amount of insurance following a loss , to whatever it takes to rebuild your home if it is damaged and has to be rebuilt . All - Risk type policies will not cover everything but they will specifically state what you are not covered for and you can decide where to go from there . Few policies include the Guaranteed Replacement feature ; so make sure you ask for it . And if the company doesnt offer it , you may want to check with someone else . Most people also want their personal stuff replaced should it be damaged or destroyed . So a good homeowners policy should do that . That means , all-risk replacement cost coverage for all your stuff . If its not all-risk -LRB- often called Special Coverage or Open Perils -RRB- Replacement Cost , you may want to look further . Again , not all types of damage will be covered but the policy will tell you what you are not covered for so you wont have any surprises . Often specific exclusions can be eliminated for an additional cost . Most policies dont include these features so make sure you ask for them if that is the kind of coverage you expect . Good homeowners policies will include coverage for the additional expenses you may incur should your home be damaged and you have to live somewhere else while it is being repaired and a nominal amount of Personal Liability coverage , a good one will have limits not less than $ 300,000 . A good homeowners policy will be offered by a financially strong , at least A-rated insurance company hopefully with a local contact to help you understand what you are getting , makes sure it covers any special situations that make up your life and is there should you have a significant claim . A good homeowners policy is one that doesnt get cancelled the first time you have a claim . Buying insurance on-line may be popular and convenient but you have to know what you are doing . Remember if there is a problem , you are one small policy and they are one big insurance company . It may be a good time to have somebody local on your side .
If your house is damaged in a fire , your home insurance will kick in . This insurance will not only pay for fixing up your home , but will also cover a number of other extra costs . The amount of money you get from your insurance depends on a few factors though . The first item your home insurance covers is the damage to your home . The amount you receive for damages depends on the limit of insurance you purchased . If your limit is high enough to cover all damages , your insurance will cover all your home repairs . If you didnt fully cover your house , you may need to pay some of the costs out of your pocket . On top of covering your house , your home insurance will also replace your personal belongings . Once again , the amount you receive depends on the coverage you bought . In addition , home insurance limits the amount it pays on expensive items like jewelry and artwork . If you have any valuables , you may need to buy additional coverage . Lastly , your home insurance will cover the costs of your living somewhere else because of the fire . If you need to live in a hotel and eat at restaurants while your home is repaired , the insurance will pay for these expenses . While home insurance covers your damages in most cases , it wont cover the costs from an intentional fire . This applies to fires started by family members , not by a stranger vandalizing your house . If a member of your household started the damaging fire on purpose , your insurance wont cover your expenses . Unless you fall under this exception , your home insurance should cover the damages of a fire .
A home is the largest single purchase that most people make in their lifetime . There are two characteristics that make home ownership difficult . The first is that the ownership of a home creates a situation of responsibility where you become responsible for personal injury and property damage that comes out of home ownership . For example , someone enters you home , slips on a rug and falls . Injuries can be minor or severe . It is quite possible that you could be sued to recover the loss sustained by the person who fell . This is a liability loss . The second is that you have an enormous amount of your money and the mortgage companys money invested in the home . It is usually a multiple of your annual income and would represent a great financial loss were the home to be destroyed . Your mortgage company is particularly concerned about losing their collateral and will require hazard insurance to protect their interests to the greatest extent possible . The list of things that could happen to damage a residence is lengthy but most of the causes or perils are contained in the HO-3 Homeowners policy . There are notable exceptions which should be restated . You are probably not covered for damage caused by earthquake or flood . These coverages are available but in slightly different forms and often with different policies . Because an individual can not sustain the personal loss of a law suit or the destruction of their property they turn to an insurance company to pool their risk with hundreds of thousands of other residences . This recognizes the probability of damage and spreads that risk over a large number of residences . The insurance company charges enough to be able to pay those losses when they occur . Your state insurance commissioner is very concerned about the adequacy of the insurance companies admitted in your state . While there are various types of home insurance policies , I will confine my comments to the most common , the HO-3 Homeowners policy . Coverage A in a homeowners policy covers your residence . The coverage includes additional items but does not cover land or water . It doesnt cover trees except as covered in incidental coverages . Coverage B covers related structures on the property . It has the same restrictions as Coverage A and doesnt cover any business structures , except for a residence on the property that you lease to others . It covers you garage Coverage C covers the personal property that you either own or are responsible for . This is a very important coverage and contains internal limits on selected classes of property such as money , securities , jewelry , guns and watercraft . Misunderstandings often arise about this coverage and it should be discussed thoroughly with your insurance agent . Modifications of this coverage are relatively inexpensive and an unpaid claim is an expensive way to discover that you werent adequately covered . Coverage D pays the necessary and reasonable increase in living cost you incur when your household meets with an insured loss . The company will try to get you back into your residence as quickly as possible but will make sure that you are able to maintain your normal standard of living during the repairs . Coverage D also covers the loss of rents you might experience in the event of a covered loss . If you have an apartment on the premises and it is damaged by a covered loss , this section would apply . There are other limits and extensions in this section that require your attention if you are leasing property . There are number of ancillary coverages including credit cards , trees , fire department charges , debris removal , emergency removal of covered property and grave markers . There are several pages of definitions and exclusions which should be read . Most confusion arising from a homeowners policy come from this part of the policy . Many people think that a homeowners policy pays for routine maintenance or deterioration . Coverage L covers personal liability and provides that the company will pay up to the limits for expense that you are liable for because of bodily injury or property damage that happens on your premises . Coverage M covers medical payments to others and provides necessary medial expenses if they are incurred on your property and result in bodily injury . There are several pages of definitions and limitations on liability coverage . The policy then defines your responsibilities . You must notify the company of a loss , you must cooperate and many other responsibilities . At the back of the policy are a number of endorsements which changes the policy . These apply to specific types of property such as trading cards , animals , a roof and others . Together the HO-3 Homeowners policy is a package of protection that is sufficiently broad to meet the requirements of both lenders and homeowners . Special additional coverages are offered and should be considered . Many of these additional coverages can be included in the basic policy .
Home Insurance may cover appliances in home ; there are 2 types of appliances , those that are fitted and those that are free standing . Fitted appliances constitute part of the Dwelling Coverage on the home insurance policy , whereas , free standing appliances may be covered under the Personal Property Coverage on the home insurance policy . The perils covered under a home insurance policy must be reviewed regarding the damage to the appliances . For example , Fire , Smoke , Lightning & Water damage may be covered on the policy which would also carry forward to the appliances . Regarding free standing appliances , the policy must afford coverage for Personal Property . If this question was intended for the reason of upkeep and maintenance of appliances , home insurance policies are not intended to repair or replace appliances due to maintenance and/or breakdown . Home insurance is intended for sudden and accidental losses which could cause financial hardship to the homeowner . If you wish to cover your appliances , you may wish topurchase a Home Warranty Contract from a small handful of carriers who offer a maintenance contract ; in this case , you will pay an annual premium as well as a Service Charge for each call when a repair company is dispatched to take care of a covered maintenance situation . If your question was indeed regarding perils covered on a homeowners policy , you may wish to contact your local agent and review the coverage on your policy or WEBSITELINK and we 'll be happy to review your coverage for you at no charge .
Adequate home insurance coverage is very important , and the discussion should be had with a professional independent agent . The best way to answer this question is to provide some general information for the primary/main coverage types on the home insurance policy -LRB- please note that each state and company policy coverages and requirements vary . This is why it is important to review in detail with your professional independent agent -RRB- . Dwelling value : this is the coverage limit that protects the structure/dwelling . Ideally , this coverage limit needs to be set at the proper replacement cost valuation . In the event of a total loss -LRB- fire , tornado ... -RRB- , what is the amount of insurance coverage on your dwelling that you would need to get you back in that exact same house?The answer to this question is the dwelling amount coverage limit that your home insurance policy should have . Personal property/contents coverage limit : this is the coverage that provides protection for your personal belongings . It is suggested to take pictures of your belongings -LRB- especially your more valuable items -RRB- as well as have copies of the pictures and any receipts to provide proof of ownership in the event of a claim . Again , like with the dwelling value we discussed above , the question here is what is the value of all of your items in your house ? Or , what would thecost be toget everythingwhat you have now in your house if a fire or tornado destroyed it all?The answer to this question is the personal property contents limit that your home insurance policy should have . Also - please note that if you have a mortgage on your home , most often the lender will require the loan amount or 100 % ofthecalculated structurereplacement value to be the required dwelling coverage amount.This amount can vary , and to ensure that you are getting the coverage protection you need without overinsuring , please review with your local professional independent agent . Liability coverage/medical pay to others : this is about the least-expensive part of a home insurance policy , but it is very important to have . The minimal amount of liability coverage suggested to have for this coverage category is $ 300,000 , although usually the bump up in coverage to the $ 500,000 liability limit is usually very small . And , the medical payments to others coverage should be at $ 5000 . These coverages protect you from injury that an unrelated -LRB- visitor -RRB- sustains while on your property , or that you are deemed to be liabile -LRB- responsible -RRB- for . Please note that these are just a couple of the important insurance coverages that are included on your home insurance . There are many other coverages that might be included with the policy that you choose or there might be other suggested coverages that you can add to your home policy that gives you the extra coverage protection that you need . There is not a general coverage limit or value that is used for determining the proper coverages for your home insurance . Every client is different and so are their needs . Make sure that you review what your needs and coverage requirements are , and let an independent agent create a policy specifically for you and your needs .
Your homeowners policy should cover the amount it would cost to completely rebuild your home including re-engineering costs . It should be written on an insurance form that is considered `` All Risk '' . All risk coverage will not list what you are covered for , but rather , it covers everything that is not excluded . Typical exclusions include earthquake , flood , wear & tear , maintenance and intentional acts . You should cover your contents , or personal property , with a replacement cost endorsement . This will replace your items in your home rather than depreciate your personal property . Our office recommends at least $ 500,000 in Personal Liability coverage and Loss of Use coverage should you need to live somewhere else while your home is rebuilt or repaired . Hope this answers your question . You should check with your local independent insurance agent . They will help customize your policy for your unique needs .
Most insurance companies that offer homeowners policies use or adapt a standard policy that was developed by the Insurance Services Organization -LRB- ISO -RRB- . Definitions are fairly consistent across different company policies . Companies have frequently adopted easy read policies and some of these appear to be slightly different ; however , they are still based upon the same framework in most cases . The mix of coverages offered by the various insurance companies is also comparable . The ISO format allows for a number of different forms and that can sometimes create confusion but most companies offer the standard HO-3 form . The most important thing is to determine the perils that the policy is pledged to insure against . Again , these are fairly standard but with the different forms there is also a slightly different list of perils . The basic peril is fire and the list of perils includes everything except . As a consumer you should note carefully the perils that the policy is going to cover . Customers occasionally fail to make premium payments when they are required and the coverage lapses . Expired home insurance is the very worst kind . It will not provide any coverage in the event of loss which could be quite expensive . The majority of home policies are actually paid by an impound account established by the mortgage company but some are not and occasionally even a mortgage company fails to pay the premium at the correct time . Incidentally , since the mortgage company requires that you carry home insurance and name them as mortgagee they also have the right to issue an insurance policy on the property with a company that you do not select and at a price you do not negotiate . This can be a rude and expensive revelation . So , the best home insurance policy is the one that is in effect . The next criteria are that the best home insurance has adequate limits to handle a claim . Usually this is established at the time the policy is written with a third-party estimate of reconstruction costs . Most home policies have a provision that increases coverage with every renewal to keep pace with the rising cost of construction in your area . This should be checked every few years to make sure that everything is accurate . The cost of a property loss could greater than anticipated . If there is a massive loss in an area , for example a fire takes out homes in a three block area , the limits of the policy might be exhausted before the home can be restored because there would be an unusual strain on the capacity of the building trades in the area to repair all the homes involved . There is intense competition for building materials and specialty contractors . If you think you might be in an area that could be affected in that way make sure you discuss this at length with your insurance agent . The liability limit on your home policy requires close attention . A lawsuit for bodily injury or physical damage can end up costing a great deal more than the value of your home . You should select the maximum amount of liability coverage that the insurance company offers and then price umbrella coverage to increase that limit . It only takes one lawsuit to ruin your weekend . Two huge risks are not covered by the standard home insurance policy . These risks are flood and earthquake . Both can be devastating . Consider the purchase of flood insurance through your agent and the National Flood program and Earthquake which is available as a separate policy or as optional coverage depending upon your insurance company . There are four optional coverages that also require close attention . There are additional coverages available but your agent will probably be able to identify your need based upon your location . If your sewer backs up and destroys your hardwood floors , carpets , tile , walls and woodwork , you will be surprised that that damage is excluded by most home insurance policies . Coverage for this risk is available through your home insurance company . Since most losses to the residence itself are partial losses repair and replacement can be hampered by a change in laws and ordinances concerning construction in your area . There is additional coverage available to pay for those increased expenses . Home insurance policies do not cover all personal property in the same way . There are specific limits to coverage for jewelry , guns , collections and others . Review this coverage and obtain additional coverage if you have an exposure in these areas . The coverage for the contents in a home is rarely set up as replacement coverage . That means that a loss is going to be adjusted by the price of used furniture , clothing and appliances . This is not satisfactory in most cases . There is optional coverage that will replace personal property based upon the actual price of replacement items . Many people think that home insurance is just a simple matter , however , it can be quite complex , particularly when you have a loss .
Under certain conditions , Medicare Part A will cover intermittent or part-time home health care provided by a skilled nurse . Again , Medicares requirements for receiving home care are quite strict . Medicare will pay for home health care to treat an illness or injury only if a person meetsallof the following requirements : - A doctor must determine that medical care is needed at home and must make a plan for such care . - The person needs intermittent skilled nursing care , physical therapy , speech therapy , or occupational therapy . - The person is homebound , which means generally unable to leave home -LRB- when a person leaves , it must be infrequent and for a short time only , such as to go to a doctors appointment -RRB- . - The home health care agency must be Medicare-approved . Keep in mind that unlike Medicares nursing home benefit , a person does not need to be admitted to a hospital first in order to qualify for Medicare home health care . In addition , services will be provided on an intermittent or part-time basis only by a visiting nurse , therapist , or home health aide . Medicares home health care benefit does not pay for 24-hour full-time care . Medicare generally limits its home health care benefit because the program is only designed to serve individuals who need intermittent care for a relatively short period of time rather than care on a daily basis . Once a person is receiving Medicare home health care , his or her plan of care will be reviewed at least every 60 days . If the persons health changes and care is no longer needed , the home health agency will notify the individuals doctor , who must then contact Medicare . From that point , home care will no longer be covered by Medicare . The Medicare home health care benefit will not pay for homemaker services such as housekeeping , shopping , and cleaning . It also does not pay for custodial carethat is , help with meeting daily personal needs such as bathing , toileting , transferring , or eating . Because most people who need long-term care need custodial care , financial practitioners should point out this shortcoming to clients . Many people who do qualify for Medicare home health care benefits still need to pay for additional custodial care in order to live comfortably and independently at home .
Under certain conditions , Medicare Part A will cover intermittent or part-time home health care provided by a skilled nurse . Again , Medicares requirements for receiving home care are quite strict . Medicare will pay for home health care to treat an illness or injury only if a person meetsallof the following requirements : A doctor must determine that medical care is needed at home and must make a plan for such care . The person needs intermittent skilled nursing care , physical therapy , speech therapy , or occupational therapy . The person is homebound , which means generally unable to leave home -LRB- when a person leaves , it must be infrequent and for a short time only , such as to go to a doctors appointment -RRB- . The home health care agency must be Medicare-approved . Keep in mind that unlike Medicares nursing home benefit , a person does not need to be admitted to a hospital first in order to qualify for Medicare home health care . In addition , services will be provided on an intermittent or part-time basis only by a visiting nurse , therapist , or home health aide . Medicares home health care benefit does not pay for 24-hour full-time care . Medicare generally limits its home health care benefit because the program is only designed to serve individuals who need intermittent care for a relatively short period of time rather than care on a daily basis . Once a person is receiving Medicare home health care , his or her plan of care will be reviewed at least every 60 days . If the persons health changes and care is no longer needed , the home health agency will notify the individuals doctor , who must then contact Medicare . From that point , home care will no longer be covered by Medicare . The Medicare home health care benefit will not pay for homemaker services such as housekeeping , shopping , and cleaning . It also does not pay for custodial carethat is , help with meeting daily personal needs such as bathing , toileting , transferring , or eating . Because most people who need long-term care need custodial care , financial practitioners should point out this shortcoming to clients . Many people who do qualify for Medicare home health care benefits still need to pay for additional custodial care in order to live comfortably and independently at home .
A good life insurance agent has some important characteristics . A good agent is a good listener . A good agent will listen to you and will check with you to make sure that you are fully understood . A good agent communicates clearly to both you and to the insurance company . The agent should explain as completely as possible the details of the policy and patiently answer your questions . The good agent will communicate your information and concerns to the underwriting staff of the insurance company . Underwriters are usually quite conservative . The more that the agent can paint a picture that the underwriter can understand ; it is more likely that you will have a good outcome . Finally a good agent offers sound financial advice . A good agent isnt an order taker . A good agent will show you the advantages of alternate approaches to your problem . A good agent will not leave out anything vital to the case and will carefully counsel you as it regards your unique situation . Are there many good life insurance agents ? I think that there are , however , they are often in demand and do little to solicit business . You probably need to check with your colleagues and friends and locate that good life insurance agent that they trust .
-- > Normal 0 The Best homeowners insurance policy is the one that is going to do what you want it to for what you are willing to pay . So what do you want it to do ? Pay for any damage to your home ? The Best policy would guaranty your home would be repaired or rebuilt if damaged by any cause . All policies will have exclusions or limitations . The Best policy will have the fewest exclusions or limitations . Reimburse you for loss or damage to your personal property ? The Best policy will repair or replace -LRB- new for old -RRB- your property should it be damaged from any cause . Again , most policies will have exclusions and limitations , the Best policy will have the fewest exclusions and limitations . The Best policy will include a Personal Liability limit not less than $ 300,000 and offer a good Personal Umbrella should you need or want higher limits . The Best policy will be offered by an agent or insurer who will take the time to alert you to all the policy amendments available to address your specific needs . The Best policy will be offered by an agent or insurer who will stand with you should a claim occur and help you return to your pre-loss position . In my opinion , the Best policy will be the one that will do all the above for the most favorable premium .
There is no similarity between Home Warranty and Home Insurance except the word ` Home ' ! The purpose of a Home Warranty contract is for a homeowner to enjoy a warranty for covered appliances in the home ; the warranty provides assurance that covered appliances will be repaired or replaced . There are usually options available ; for instance , an Air Conditioning Unit orSwimming Pool Equipment may be available as an additional endorsement . Home Insurance on the other hand is necessary to provide the sudden and accidental loss to the dwelling from covered perils namely Fire , Lightning , Hail , Wind etc. ... Home Insurance does not provide the warranty of home appliances from break down or normal wear and tear . For example , in the disastrous event of a house fire , the homeowners insurance will provide coverage to rebuild the home and replace appliances that were damaged in the fire . This example is simply meant to aid the understanding of the difference between a home warranty and a home insurance policy ; none of the above will supersede a consumer contract issued by an insurance carrier or home warranty company .
A life insurance brokerage is a business through which multiple life insurance carriers are represented . The brokers that are affiliated with the brokerage are appointed with different companies . A successful brokerage one that really gets the job done for the consumer should have certain characteristics . First of all , it should specialize in one product line : life insurance . The broker should be a master of his craft . He or she should be an expert in life insurance underwriting , because it is through getting good underwriting that you deliver the best value to your client . Good underwriting can give you the lowest rate/highest cash value accumulation . If the broker sells multiple products , such as life insurance , and annuities , and disability insurance , and investments , etc. , then he really is a jack of all trades and master of none . Another point is that the brokerage should be run just as any good business is run . You make commitments and you deliver on them . This means that the sales model of the brokerage should be to provide a quote about which they are confident the client will be approved . It is common business sense to quote a reliable price . Prequalification should therefore be an essential part of the service the brokerage provides . Clients are entitled to know the company , product , and price before submitting a formal application . Then all involved can be sure that going through underwriting will be worthwhile . A brokerage operation should be designed to make the purchase of life insurance a very satisfying experience for the consumer .
Medicare covers home health care services only if all the following conditions are met : Your doctor must decide that you need medical care at home , and make a plan for your care at home . You must need intermittent skilled nursing care , physical therapy , speech-language therapy , or to continue occupational therapy . The home health agency caring for you must be approved by the Medicare program -LRB- Medicare-certified -RRB- . You must be homebound , or normally unable to leave home without help . Medicare beneficiaries that meet these conditions have coverage for the following types of home health care : Skilled nursing care on a part-time or intermittent basis . Skilled nursing care includes services and care that can only be performed safely and correctly by a licensed nurse -LRB- either a registered nurse or a licensed practical nurse -RRB- . Home health aide services on a part-time or intermittent basis . A home health aide does n't have a nursing license , but supports the nurse by providing services such as help with bathing , using the bathroom , dressing , or other personal care . These types of services do n't need the skills of a licensed nurse . Medicare does n't cover home health aide services unless you are also getting skilled care such as nursing care or other therapy . The home health aide services must be part of the home care for your illness or injury . Physical therapy , speech-language therapy , and occupational therapy for as long as your doctor says you need it . Physical therapy includes exercise to regain movement and strength in a body area , and training on how to use special equipment or do daily activities , like how to get in and out of a wheelchair or bathtub . Speech-language therapy -LRB- pathology services -RRB- includes exercise to regain and strengthen speech skills . Occupational therapy includes exercise to help you do usual daily activities by yourself . You might learn new ways to eat , put on clothes , comb your hair , and perform other usual daily activities . You may continue to receive occupational therapy if ordered by your doctor even if you no longer need other skilled care . Medical social services to help you with social and emotional concerns related to your illness . This might include counseling or help in finding resources in your community . Certain medical supplies , like wound dressings -LRB- but not prescription drugs or biologicals -RRB- . Durable medical equipment , such as a wheelchair or walker . Food and Drug Administration -LRB- FDA -RRB- - approved injectable osteoporosis drugs in certain circumstances . Currently , Medicare does not cover -LRB- does not pay -RRB- for any of the following : 24-hour-a-day care at home ; Meals delivered to your home ; Homemaker services like shopping , cleaning , and laundry ; and Personal care given by home health aides like bathing , dressing , and using the bathroom when this is the only care you need . Most of the time , your doctor , a social worker , or a hospital discharge planner will help arrange for Medicare-covered home health care . However , the decision on which home health care agency or worker belongs to the patent .
To find good life insurance , find a good broker . He or she will help you determine what is good for you . What amount ... what cost ... what carrier are good for you ? A good broker will help you find out - and find this all out before you apply , so you can be confident of the outcome of underwriting . Good life insurance is a policy you are glad to buy .
-- > Normal 0 Id like to expand a little on this question , sure your mortgage lender may require you to have some form of insurance coverage on your home but just good judgment would suggest you not be without this type of coverage . Homeowners policies provide coverage in four principal areas ; Depending on the type of coverage you purchase , the policy most often would reimburse you should your home be damaged or destroyed . It will often reimburse you should any of your personal property be damaged or destroyed -LRB- clothing , furniture and/or household items -RRB- . They can reimburse you for additional expenses you incur should your home be damaged and you are required to live in temporary quarters for a period of time while your home is being repaired . These policies may also pay for an attorney to represent you should someone other than a family member be injured while on your property and indemnify you if a civil court finds you responsible for injuring someone or damaging their property . Any responsible homeowner should consider securing this type of coverage . It beats digging into your savings after a storm , fire or after being served legal papers . And it beats waiting for the Red Cross to give you a shirt , a bed and a hot meal .
I suggest you start by listing all the insurance you are now buying ; auto , tenants or home insurance , health , disability , life , etc. . The list should include a basic outline of the coverage , the insurer or agent and the annual premium . The information on this list may point you in the right direction . I would first consider insurers/agents you are currently doing business with if you are at all satisfied with them.If not , maybe you should be looking for more than just home insurance . Request limits , coverage and deductibles consistent with what you currently purchase.If you have all-risk coverage on your car -LRB- comprehensive and collision -RRB- , I would suggest considering all-risk coverage on your home and other personal property you own . If you have $ 300,000 liability limits on your car , you may want to consider similar limits on your home . Deductibles should be consistent whether they are car , home or medical and represent the amount of risk you are willing and can afford to assume . Features I like to see in home policies include : All-risk * coverage on the home AND personal property , GUARANTEED Replacement cost of your home , consistent liability limits and deductibles . In some locals , you have to be concerned with the perils of Flood , earthquake , sinkhole damage and wind as standard policies limit coverage in these areas . It 's common to look for the least expensive policy but it 's also important to have the RIGHT policy . An insurance policy is just a very expensive piece of paper until you happen to need it .
The answer here is `` maybe '' . It really depends upon the situation and the coverage . In general , if you consider the same house and the same coverage , the homeowners coverage will cost you less . let 's start with some terms . In the industry , we usually call landlord insurance either dwelling fire , or a dwelling policy . It points to the difference between this and a homeowners policy . A homeowners policy has 6 coverages : A. Dwelling - the structure B . Other Structures - detached garages , shed 's , pole barns , etc. . C. Personal Property - Your stuff D. Loss of Use - The extra costs you 'll incur if you have to live somewhere while your home is repaired E. Personal Liability - Protects you from being sued F. Medical Payments - Pays for injuries that happen on your property without having to be sued . A Dwelling Policy , in general does n't have any coverage C , Personal Property . As a landlord , you 're worried about the building and your liability . Your tenant 's personal property is their responsibility to insure . Dwelling policies are more complicated to put together than homeowners policies but I 'll leave that discussion for another time . Lets talk about why Dwelling Policy usually costs more than a Homeowners policy . With a homeowners policy the insurance company has a greater sense of security because they only have one entity to worry about , the homeowners and their family . They have a financial interest in keeping their home safe , secure , and in good repair . With a rental property , you may have many different tenants occupy that home and they have no financial interest in the home itself . A tenant is much more likely to let things go that may eventually cause a claim . Additionally , with a homeowners policy , the liability is protecting the insured from others , with a dwelling policy , you 're also being protected from the people that actually occupy the home . Now , one last thing to mention . If you 're renting your home and it 's insured on a homeowners policy , change it now . If there 's a claim on the home and the insurance company finds out it 's being rented , they may refuse to pay your claim . Most homeowners policies require the home to be occupied by the owner for coverage to apply . Find a good agent that knows how this works and how to put this coverage together for your situation . It 's much better to know what your coverage is and make choices rather then to think you have coverage you really do n't
end question
start question
life-insurance
Who Gets Life Insurance If Beneficiary Is Deceased ?
Life insurance policies allow you to name one or more Primary Beneficiaries , and one or more Contingent -LRB- Secondary -RRB- Beneficiaries . If there is only one Primary Beneficiary named and that person is deceased , the policy proceeds go to the Contingent Beneficiary . If there is more than one Primary Beneficiary and one of them is deceased , the death benefit will be paid to the remaining Primary Beneficiary or Beneficiaries . If all Beneficiaries are deceased at the time that the Insured passes away , the life insurance proceeds are paid to the estate of the Insured and distributed according to his/her will . If there is no will , the state distributes them according to their intestate succession rules . No doubt there are some exceptions to how policies are handled when all Beneficiaries predecease the Insured , but this is the general way it works .
If you are the beneficiary of a life insurance policy and you have a wage garnishment out against you , what can be garnished depends on the rules of the state . Federal law sets limits on what can be garnished , but states can add to those limitations . Consult an attorney if your wages are being garnished and you are set to become the beneficiary of a life insurance policy , or have recently received proceeds of a life insurance policy . If it is the deceased person who was insured by the life insurance policy whose wage were being garnished , or who owed substantial debt , the money received by the beneficiary is usually safe from creditors to whom the deceased owed money . If the insured person left his money to his estate , or there were no living beneficiaries on his policy to receive the death benefit , then creditors have access to money left to the estate . But money left to a person as beneficiary belongs to the beneficiary and is not accessible to creditors for the deceased .
If the debts belong to the person who passed away , and if the beneficiary on his/her policy is the estate , then the debt collectors will go after the life insurance proceeds to pay off the deceased person 's outstanding debts . If the beneficiary of the deceased person 's policy is a person , debt collectors can not go after the insurance proceeds unless the beneficiary was a co-signer of the debt along with the deceased person . If it is the beneficiary who has the debts , then the life insurance proceeds received will be fair game for debt collectors .
Creditors can not go after the life insurance payout to pay the debts of the deceased insured person , as long as the beneficiary or beneficiaries who are receiving the life insurance proceeds are actual people . Life insurance bypasses probate , so the creditor does not have the opportunity to access the life insurance payout . If the beneficiary is the insured person 's estate , the creditors may be able to go after the life insurance death benefit to pay the debts of the insured . If the beneficiary is the one who has the debts , then the creditors can go after the life insurance payout . This is also true if the beneficiary shared a debt with the deceased .
Creditors can not reach life insurance proceeds to pay off the debts of the deceased insured person unless the beneficiary of the policy was not a person . I.e. . If the insured named his/her `` estate '' as the beneficiary , then the policy proceeds go through probate , giving creditors for the deceased , access to those funds . If the beneficiary is a person , the life insurance proceeds do not usually go through probate , but directly to that person . Creditors can not reach the money that went to the beneficiary unless the beneficiary shared the debt with the deceased .
Life insurance proceeds can be taken by creditors if the proceeds go into the estate of the deceased insured person . This happens if the beneficiary of the policy is named `` the estate '' or if the persons listed as beneficiaries are no longer alive . If the beneficiary is a living person , the creditors for the deceased can not go after the insurance proceeds from the beneficiary . If it is the beneficiary who owes debt , creditors may try to access the life insurance money that the beneficiary was left .
If you believe that a deceased individual owned life insurance you should first start by attempting to find paperwork from a life insurer . If you are successful in doing this , call the insurer with information including the deceased 's date of birth and social security number . If you are not the beneficiary the insurer will not be able to disclose information to you , but you can either have the beneficiary contact the insurer or give the insurer contact information for the beneficiary . If you are unsuccessful at locating paperwork , you can contact the Medial Information Bureau -LRB- MIB -RRB- located in Massachusetts and use their policy finder tool . There is a cost for this , and the success rate of finding a policy is admittedly low , but this can sometimes be helpful . Lastly , you can wait . Insurer 's are supposed to report proceeds to the state in which the deceased was a legal resident to the state 's department of treasury et . al. and hand funds over to them . This is coordinated through the Social Security Administrations Death Master File database . You can then contact the state 's treasury department to inquire about funds being released by an insurer .
When life insurance is left to a beneficiary who is a person or a life insurance trust , the life insurance does not normally go through probate , and no income taxes are paid . However , the policy proceeds will be included in the value of the estate when the deceased owned the policy -LRB- or if the deceased transferred ownership to someone else within three years before death -RRB- or when proceeds were paid to the executor of the deceased 's estate .
Good question . In general , No . I say this , because , the estate of a deceased person is typically responsible for his or her debt . If creditors come back to a deceased person 's estate to attempt to collect , they do so during the probate process . When structured correctly , life insurance will be paid directly to a beneficiary , and bypass the probate process . Now , there are always caveats . If you were a co-owner on the debt , or in the case where a spouse survives the deceased , the creditor may still require payment . Life insurance proceeds could be used to offset this , but in general , life insurance is paid directly to the beneficiary .
If you are the beneficiary of a life insurance policy and it is the deceased who was under garnishment , your life insurance benefit can not be garnished on behalf of the deceased . If you get a life insurance benefit and you are the one who owes money , federal and state law determine how much -LRB- if any -RRB- of the death benefit can be garnished .
The primary beneficiary of life insurance is the one who would receive the money if the insured person passed away . There can be more than one primary beneficiary , with each one getting a certain percent of the death benefit . If the primary beneficiary is deceased , the money is split between the other primary beneficiaries . If there are no other primary beneficiaries , the death benefit then goes to the contingent beneficiaries .
The primary beneficiary of a life insurance policy is the one who would receive the money if the insured person passed away . There can be more than one primary beneficiary , with each one getting a certain percent of the death benefit . If the primary beneficiary is deceased , the money is split between the other primary beneficiaries . If there are no other primary beneficiaries , the death benefit then goes to the contingent beneficiaries .
The Primary Beneficiary of a life insurance policy is the person first designated by the Owner of the policy to receive the death benefit if the Insured person passes . The Primary Beneficiary may be one or more persons , or it may be a trust or other entity . If the Primary Beneficiary is one person , he/she gets 100 % of the death benefit . If more than one beneficiary is noted , the death benefit may be split equally , or the policy may assign different percentages to go to each beneficiary . Most policies list a Contingent Beneficiary -LRB- or more than one , as described above -RRB- as well . If all the Primary Beneficiaries are deceased , the death benefit would go to the Contingent Beneficiaries in the manner noted by the policy . It is important to review life insurance policies regularly to make sure that the beneficiaries noted are up to date and that the death benefit goes to the person or persons intended .
Life insurance policies allow you to name one or more Primary Beneficiaries , and one or more Contingent -LRB- Secondary -RRB- Beneficiaries . If there is only one Primary Beneficiary named and that person is deceased , the policy proceeds go to the Contingent Beneficiary . If there is more than one Primary Beneficiary and one of them is deceased , the death benefit will be paid to the remaining Primary Beneficiary or Beneficiaries . If all Beneficiaries are deceased at the time that the Insured passes away , the life insurance proceeds are paid to the estate of the Insured and distributed according to his/her will . If there is no will , the state distributes them according to their intestate succession rules . No doubt there are some exceptions to how policies are handled when all Beneficiaries predecease the Insured , but this is the general way it works .
A secondary beneficiary for life insurance is also called a contingent beneficiary . A secondary beneficiary is not the same as being the second primary beneficiary listed . If there is more than one primary beneficiary , the death benefit is split among the primary beneficiaries . A secondary , or contingent , beneficiary only receives the death benefit if all primary beneficiaries are deceased .
Creditors can go after life insurance proceeds that are left to the estate . Probate is the process of administering an estate , and when the death benefit from life insurance is left to the estate , those funds are in the pool , and during probate , creditors will go after their share . If life insurance is left to a person as a beneficiary , that person who collects the money is not generally liable for paying the debts of the person who died . State laws differ and there are variations that can affect this , but the general rule is that creditors for the deceased can not go after the life insurance the deceased person left to you .
A life insurance claim isonly createdat a death of an insuredand passes to another beneficiary . Therefore the person in debt has now passed on along with their debts . The beneficiary has no responsibility for the deceased debts . Any monies paid on behalf of the deceased is strictly voluntary by the beneficiary .
As long as a beneficiary is designated , no . If there is no beneficiary , the proceeds default to the estate which means probate . Having a named beneficiary rather than the estate of the insured allows the property to pass by contract directly to heirs without the need for probate . Its effect generally supersedes anything that a will or trust might say . It is also a good idea to consider naming at least one contingent -LRB- backup -RRB- beneficiary and have the insurer confirm the identity of all beneficiaries at least every three years . Clients are often surprised to find they have existing policies with beneficiaries who are deceased which means the estate would get the proceeds and be subjected to probate .
To expand a bit ... Life insurance proceeds are among a class of assets that `` pass by contract '' at death ; in this case , the contract is the insurance policy with its beneficiary designation . -LRB- Other assets that pass by contract include IRAs / Qualified Retirement Plans , annuities , jointly-owned bank or investment accounts , etc. -RRB- Assets that do n't pass to a beneficiary by operation of a contract are subject to probate , which is where a will comes in . It is possible to have the proceeds of a life insurance policy be distributed according to the terms of a will by naming the insured 's estate as the policy beneficiary -LRB- e.g. Beneficiary : Estate of the Insured -RRB- . However , doing so is generally avoided because of the disadvantages inherent in the probate process : During probate , a will is subject to being challenged by anyone with standing -LRB- generally , anyone who can prove a relationship to the deceased -RRB- . A beneficiary designation is n't subject to those types of challenges . Assets of the probate estate are subject to the claims of creditors of the estate ; life insurance proceeds paid to the insured 's estate may get depleted to repay debts before the intended heirs receive any benefit . The probate process is a public court proceeding , andcan be lengthy . A life insurance death benefit claim involves only the beneficiary and the insurance company , and claims are generally paid very quickly - often within two weeks .
Generally speaking , if the life insurance policy had a person named as Beneficiary , and the Insured person passed away , the benefits from that policy should go to the Beneficiary and be safe from garnishment for child support -LRB- if the garnishment was against the Insured -RRB- . If the Beneficiary stated in the policy is the estate , then the life insurance could be garnished for child support owed by the deceased . If the child support is owed by the Beneficiary , rules regarding wage garnishments against the Beneficiary of the life insurance proceeds vary by state . If you owe child support and are the Beneficiary of a life insurance policy in which the Insured passed away , there has to be a judgement made against you . Then , it varies by state whether any of the life insurance proceeds can be taken away from you for child support payment . You should contact legal counsel for the answer to this question .
end question
start question
disability-insurance
How To Qualify For Long Term Disability Insurance ?
To qualify for Long Term Disability Insurance , you must earn an income and be of favorable enough health that you can qualify medically for the Disability Insurance policy . There are also some age guidelines . The process of qualifying includes filling out an application and taking an exam , just as you would if applying for life insurance . Once the underwriting review is complete , the premium is set , the policy is issued , and you put it into effect by paying the first premium .
Along with what Peggy said , please note that for some carriers you can get what 's called Simplified Underwriting . That means , if you fall under a certain age -LRB- usually 50 -RRB- , you can get up a certain amount of coverage without having to go through medical underwriting or without having to submit financial documents . Some carriers offer as much as $ 6,000 a month . They will , however , run a script check and obtain any medical records if necessary .
Short answer : About 8 % Long answer : It 's hard to say exactly how many people own some type of policy that covers paying the costs of long term care - should one qualify for it - because there are many types of insurance policies that are not just `` stand-alone '' long-term care policies , but plans of insurance that include being able to use a percentage of other plan benefits for paying long-term care costs :1 . Stand-alone long-term care insurance covers only long-term care costs . It has no cash value . When a policy owner dies , coverage either lapses or stops paying benefits . It is not transferable . It can not be bought or sold on a secondary market . This type of long-term care insurance is sometimes referred to as `` traditional '' long-term care insurance , as well . It is the type of coverage that is most often associated with the `` percentage of Americans that own their own long-term care insurance '' .2 . Hybrid long-term care contracts consist of having long-term coverage and a life insurance policy that guarantees to at least return the full premium paid into the policy to the insured 's designated beneficiary . Usually , these are single-premium contracts , but some have options to also pay over a specified period of time , such as 5 - or 10-years .3 . Linked life + long-term care policies are basically a traditional permanent life insurance contract -LRB- Whole Life or Universal Life , including the Variable or Indexed type -RRB- . If a person qualifies for long-term care and they have the long-term care rider on their life policy , they may apply to the insurance company to advance or accelerate the face value of the policy -LRB- death benefit -RRB- to pay for the costs of care . There are various limitations on how much can be advanced at a time . If the face value of the life contract is completely advanced for long-term care , there is usually a residual death benefit of $ 5,000 - $ 10,000.4 . The latest addition to life insurance product lines are policies offering `` living benefits '' , one of which is very similar to the linked-life policy . In fact , the only difference is that a medical professional has to state in writing that the insured is not likely to recover from the condition that qualifies for long-term care benefits . -LRB- True long-term care insurance does not require that . -RRB- This type of living benefit is most often referred to as `` chronic care '' or `` extended care '' . Annuities may also have special considerations for paying out portions of the account value for long-term care costs.The point is , people who own life insurance or annuity contracts with long-term care accommodations are not typically included in with the 8 % that own traditional long-term care . So , the real percentage of those that have made some type of insurance purchase to offset long-term care costs is greater than 8 % . I doubt , however , that the total percentage of Americans that own any of the above-described types of policies would exceed 20 % at this time .
Yes , disability insurance is really paycheck insurance and protects your income stream in the event an accident or illness prevents you from working . There are two type of disability insurance ; Short Term & Long Term disability . Short term plans usually cover periods of 13 or 26 weeks . Long Term plans , as their name implies , run for longer terms that can go on for years depending upon the policy . It is estimated that a 20 year old has a 25 % chance of being disabled for some period of time before they reach retirement age . Currently 12 % of the U.S. population is disabled with only 5 % of those disabilities being work related . So , a health problem or off the job accident is the most likely cause of someone becoming disabled . A recent report shows the average Social Security Disability payment is $ 1065 per month and qualifying for Social Security disability is famous for being difficult and time consuming with waits of 2 years for approval not being uncommon and as of 2009 , only 30 % of Social Security disability claims were approved . Relying on Social Security alone to preserve your lifestyle in the event of a disability is unwise . The majority of persons who experience a disabling event can return to work within about 90-days . But , for persons who experience a disability exceeding 90-days the average length of these types of disabling events is 3.2 years ! Ideally , a person will have both short term and long term disability insurance protection . Short term disability insurance will be less expensive and if your budget does n't allow for both coverages I would suggest starting out with short term coverage for the longest coverage period possible . If you are a female I would also recommend that you verify how a prospective short term disability policy treats maternity . Some policies treat maternity as a disabling event while others do not . This can be an important difference for a woman in her child bearing years .
A better question would be `` Who Should n't Buy Long-term Care Insurance '' ? Thats simpler to answer . The following people should NOT buy long term care insurance : 1 . Those that can not afford the premium on even a base policy . 2 . Those that have virtually no assets to pass on to the next generationand will need every available dollar saved for retirement . 3 . Those that will have to work until they die for lack of savings and insufficient Social Security payments or private pension . 4 . Those that can not medically qualify . 5 . Those that are already unable to perform regular daily activities of living without assistance . People in those conditions may qualify for the payment of long-term care through Medicaid -LRB- MediCal in California -RRB- if they come to a point in their life where they need care and ca n't afford it . If the above conditions describe you in any way , you should be sitting down with your adult children or closest relatives and coming up with a plan of action should you be unable to take care of yourself . Everyone else should consider buying some long-term care insurance through an agent or agency that either specializes or has a specialist that is experienced in handling long-term care insurance casework . Having some amount of insurance is better than having none . When one qualifies to receive payments from the insurance company for long-term care , they are usually near the end of their life . The average long-term care claim is approximately 2 - 2.5 years . For those that need care longer than that , virtually all but the most unusual claims are paid out after 5 years . Families with a history of late-life mental illness -LRB- dementia or Alzheimers -RRB- should consider buying a larger pool of money than others , if they can afford it . It is in the best interest of the adult children to help out with long-term care premium payments if the elderly parents can not afford to pay all of the costs . Long-term care is an emotional , psychological , sociological , and family problem as much as it is financial . For the dignity of those who need care and the people or person most likely to be the caregiver , there needs to be a plan of action determined and long-term care insurance should be a part of that plan if it can be afforded and the person is medically qualified . Long-term care insurance is best purchased when young . Premiums can and will go up during the life of the policy if all the bells and whistles are included in the design of the coverage . But , those increases will seem like pocket-change if one needs long-term care . $ 80,000 per year is not unusual for facility care today . 24/7 home care can exceed $ 20,000 per month ! With family help , home care costs can be kept down . But , if facility care is required , there 's not much that can be done about avoiding high costs . Long-term care costs vary by place . The left - and right-hand coasts are the most expensive . Relocation may be necessary to get affordable care in a quality facility .
Maybe one should not get long-term care insurance . Let 's start there . If an individual or a family has a sizeable estate that either is liquid or can be liquidated and be made readily available to pay for the cost of long-term care , maybe long-term care is n't needed . If , on the other extreme , you have a very small estate comprised of no real estate and very little personal property of any worth and will rely almost entirely on Social Security in retirement , you ca n't afford long-term care premiums , now or in the future . You will have to have a plan , however , in case you do need long-term care . A family discussion around the topic should be scheduled so that those that might become either temporary or permanent caregivers are fully apprised of the responsibilities and sacrifices that may have to be made . Medicaid qualification should be fully investigated and the benefits and limitations understood . People buy long-term care for roughly the same reason they buy life insurance . One buys life insurance because they care about the financial security of those that are left behind . One buys long-term care insurancebecause they care about those that might have to take care of them if they ca n't take care of themselves . Long-term care costs are not covered by conventional health insurance , Medicare , and most Medicare supplement insurance . They can be very expensive , especially ifthe elderly person lives a long-period of time in a state of incapacity . Caregivers will be spouses and adult children are likely to be caregivers whether one owns long-term care insurance or not . Long-term care insurance is for caregivers . It gives them choices about the quality of care that can be afforded and whether they can be relieved of some of the responsibility for caregiving . Many elderly spouses of those that ca n't take care of themselves become disabled themselves because of the emotional and psychological energy expended in caregiving . Adult children sometimes get caught in a conflict over eldercare and parenting growing children . Long-term care insurance provides income-tax-free money to hire trained individuals to care for loved ones . Ultimately , it allows the insured to die with dignity and peace . Getting back to the wealthy that do n't need to buy long-term care insurance , guess what ? Many wealthy couples and individuals do . They understand leverage : paying smaller dollars now for larger dollars later , if needed . They also understand that in many situations , premiums for long-term care may be tax-deductible . What about the middle class ? They would have to design their coverage to help offset the cost of long-term care . No matter how much one spends , no long-term care insurance policy can guarantee to cover all possible long-term care expenses . But , the average claim is about 24 - 26 months . Buying a long-term care policy with a pool of money sufficient to cover at least part of those costs would be prudent . Is buying a basic plan for long-term care that would pay only half of one 's long-term care costs be a bad deal ? I do n't think anyone that 's paying $ 400/day for facility care and being reimbursed for $ 200/day would find that of no value .
I presume that you have purchased a long term disability policy as this is the logical precursor to being able to file a disability claim . Assuming this to be the case , then you or a friend or family member should contact your insurance agent or the insurance company you purchased your disability policy through and inform them that you have had a disabling event and need to file a claim . If your disability policy is provided by your employer you may want to contact your human resources department to start the claims process . In either event , you will be sent a claim form to complete and return to the insurance carrier . You should expect that the insurance carrier will request medical documentation of your claim of disability and perhaps the circumstances surrounding the cause of your disability . If you were charging people to watch you attempt to jump over the Grand Canyon in your Mini Cooper you may find that your disability claim will be denied due to an exclusion in your policy . Depending upon the how your disability policy was structured there will quite likely be an elimination or waiting period before your disability payments will begin . This period will vary depending upon the waiting period you selected when purchasing your policy . A 90-day waiting period is quite common but it could be 6-months or even a year . This is why some people purchase both Short Term and Long Term Disability policies . A Short Term Disability policy that kicks in on day one of an accident or after a week of an illness and that runs for 90-days or 6-months combined with a Long Term Disability policy with a 90-day or 6-month waiting period can often be less expensive and trying to purchase a Long Term Disability policy with a very short waiting period .
If you have to make a choice between long term disability insurance and short term disability insurance , most people will pick long term disability insurance . More companies offer long term disability insurance , so their premiums are more competitive . Also , most people can financially survive a short time off of work , but would be in trouble if they were to become disabled for a longer period . Long term disability insurance can cover you from a couple of years to retirement age . In my opinion , long term disability insurance is the type you should get .
Is long term disability necessary ? Again these kind of questions fall to individual and what they need . Again Disability insurance is income insurance . If your income is not effected by being unable to work -LRB- passive income -RRB- then a Long Term Disability policy may not be necessary . How long could your disability be ? Who knows ? it has n't happened yet . Figuring how long you want coverage to run or what options you want is a risk that you decide . Carrying no risk is really expensive , no doubt about that . Carrying some risk , will cost a few dollars as well . Assuming all risk may work for a person too , but . . if it does n't well this where you read about people losing everything . Insurance is sharing risk with another entity . How much and how long is up to you .
Roughly sixty percent of Americans will require long term care services sometime during their lifetime . This is not exclusively a problem for the elderly as younger people can require this type of care some times . This level of care includes a range of services including skilled and custodial care that is provided over a long period of time . These requirements come from chronic sickness or injury , cognitive impairment and physical disability . Hospitals provide acute care . Medical care given over a long period of time for chronic conditions is where the need for long term care arises . Sometimes custodial care is required because the patient has lost the ability to do one of the recognized activities of daily living or instrumental activities of daily living . Most of the long term care given in the US is given by family members . However , there are many situations where family members can not provide necessary care . Professional and non-professionals can provide aid and assistance to these people . This long term care can be given in the home of the patient or in a variety of institutional settings . Long term care can be given in day-care facilities , nursing homes , and assisted living facilities . On average men need more than two years of long term care while women need almost four years on average ? The leading causes for patients requiring long term care are dementia , arthritis , cancer , stroke and nervous conditions . Caring for a patient in a home setting can cost up to $ 150,000 per year . The cost for a nursing home bed is about $ 75,000 per year -LRB- this varies by location . -RRB- There are basically four ways to finance long term care . The family can take the expense out of their own pocket , they can look to government programs -LRB- if they qualify , -RRB- they can use long term care insurance or they can rely upon charity . For a variety of reasons long term care insurance has provided a solution for many people . LTC insurance provides predictability for an otherwise unpredictable risk . It has become such popular coverage and policyholders have been so reluctant to drop their coverage that the benefits have started exceeding the premiums . It is quite popular among wealthy policyholders . Many companies that offered coverage have withdrawn and others have been forced to raise their premiums . This adjustment seems to be complete now . There are various forms of LTC coverage . Policies different widely . It is rather difficult to compare but is worth the effort . When deciding on a policy the first thing to establish is the amount of coverage you want and the period of time you want coverage . The second consideration is how soon after the start of long term care will you want the policy to start paying . This waiting period is computed in several ways so care must be exercised to make sure you are making a fair comparison . Not all policies use the same events to trigger benefits so care should be taken in this area as well . This can be a very technical area so compare your situation with the policy requirements . How a policy pays out will vary according to the policy . Some policies provide for reimbursement of expenses , others use an indemnity form which pays up to a specific limit of expenses incurred on each specific day , and some are on a cash model which pays a maximum benefit regardless of the actual cost of the care that is being given . Long term care insurance is a way to protect assets . The alternatives deplete assets with the government programs requiring a person to be in poverty .
If you think you might qualify for Medicare due to a disability , you should first file for disability benefits through the Social Security Administration . If approved , you may be able to get Medicare prior to age 65 due to a disability . In order to qualify for Medicare due to a disability , you must meet the criteria defined by the Social Security Administration : `` Social Security pays only for total disability . No benefits are payable for partial disability or for short-term disability . `` Disability '' under Social Security is based on your inability to work . We consider you disabled under Social Security rules if : You can not do work that you did before ; We decide that you can not adjust to other work because of your medical condition -LRB- s -RRB- ; and Your disability has lasted or is expected to last for at least one year or to result in death '' . You can apply for benefits through Medicare because of a disability online at : WEBSITELINK if you are tech savvy . If you choose not to apply online , you can apply at any local Social Security Administration office by phone or in person and you can call ahead to make an appointment by calling 1-800-772-1213 . If you are deaf or hearing impaired , call the SSA 's toll-free TTY number , 1-800-325-0778 . Their representatives are available from 7AM to 7PM , Monday through Friday . It is important to note that this definition of disability `` is different than other programs '' and `` is a strict definition of disability '' according to the Social Security Administration . There are many , more comprehensive disability policies available which allow benefits to be paid for a partial disability , for example , or pay benefits to help with various expenses such as paying your mortgage in the event that you suffer a disability . In addition , these policies can be purchased for key people in a business such as a business partner or profitable executive . For questions regarding which disability policy may be best for you or how much coverage you may need , it is best to speak with an Insurance Professional . They are highly trained in the business of Insurance , and will complete a full analysis of your needs and make recommendations based on what 's in your best interest . An Insurance Professional is a great resource for any other programs and products that may be of benefit to you including state and federal resources that you may qualify for based on your unique situation such as applying for Disability through the Social Security Administration . There is a reason they are so highly trained and regulated ! Resources : www.ssa.gov
The term `` qualified '' should really be `` tax-qualified '' . A tax-qualified long-term care insurance policy -LRB- TQ -RRB- is one that pays out benefits that are not subject -LRB- in most cases -RRB- to income taxation in the year that they are received by the policy owner . -LRB- See `` NOTE '' , below . -RRB- The benefits paid out froma `` non-qualified '' long-term care policy -LRB- NTQ -RRB- may be subject to income tax in the year that they are received . Policies purchased prior to 1998 should be reviewed by a qualified tax advisor for any questions about taxation of benefits . Legislation in 1996 allowed for federal exemption from benefit payout taxationfor policies purchased after a certain datethat metspecific requirements outlined in that legislation . NOTE : LTC insurance policies that payout their benefit as a cash amount -LRB- indemnity policies -RRB- may exceed the government-allowed limit on how much of that benefit can be considered `` tax-qualified '' . If you have one of those types of policies , consult with the carrier 's policy owner service unit to determine how your benefits might be paid out should you qualify for care . Some carriers will only payout a cash benefit up to the federally-mandated limit to avoid triggering a 1099 being sent to the IRS . But , it 's better to check than be surprised .
Nope . Long-term care insurance provides financial protection against the cost of having assistance with your daily life . For example , someone living in an assisted living facility or a nursing home has long-term care that is needed because without the assistance of others , they would not be able to live comfortably and would face difficulty getting around and taking care of themselves . Long-term care is typically most utilized by elder and retired persons . Long-term disability insurance refers to providing an income to you in the event you develop a disability that inhibits your ability to work in your field -LRB- make sure to check the definition of disability in your policy to see what qualifies as a disability - this can vary by company -RRB- . For example , if you 're a surgeon and develop a condition that affects your ability to perform surgery , that condition would affect your ability to earn an income in your field . To protect against the loss of income , a long-term disability policy would provide an income to you while you recover or transition to another occupation - again , this is where the `` definition of disability '' is critical . If you need assistance with your coverage , please feel free to send me an e-mail via the contact me button or give me a call . I 'm happy to help and there are no fees for my assistance . I hope the information is helpful - thanks very much .
I would say yes . Your ability to earn income is likely your biggest asset , so what would you do if you lost that ability ? Some important things think about when trying to figure out if disability insurance is right for you is : 1 -RRB- If you became disabled , could you continue to pay your bills -LRB- mortgage payments , car payments , credit card payments , etc. -RRB- ? 2 -RRB- How long would your savings last ? 3 -RRB- Would you still be able to retire when you planned or send your children to college ? 4 -RRB- What happens to your bonus compensation and retirement contributions ? Could you keep paying the overhead expenses if you own a business ? Most disabilities are not work related and therefore not covered by workers compensation and it can be very difficult to qualify for social security disability as many disability claims are denied - even if you are approved for Social Security , the payments will probably be significantly less than you earn . Disability insurance can protect you from losing your income and is one of the most important types of insurance you can buy , especially for business owners , key employees , physicians , attorneys , and anyone who has family that depends on their ability to provide income . A big advantage with disability insurance is that when you have a qualifying claim that triggers disability payments , the monies paid to you are paid as tax-free income -LRB- as long as you paid the prmeiums with your after tax dollars - most people do -RRB- . Please note , when you 're looking to purchase disability insurance , work with an experienced , independent disability insurance agent who can work with you on a personal level to help you determine what program is suitable to your needs and budget -LRB- disability insurance policies are very customizable -RRB- . Make sure you pay attention to the language in the policy - most importantly the definition of disability . The definition of disability is the most important aspect of your disability insurance policy and you want to secure the best definition you can -LRB- `` true own occupation '' is very much regarded as the best definition you can have -RRB- . I hope the information is helpful - please feel free to contact me for assistance with your disability insurance needs , including quotes and program comparisons , and if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
When calculating your disability insurance amount you must take into account a few factors . The first factor is how much money you will need to draw every month in case of a total disability whether it is from an illness or an injury . Most plans will limit your maximum monthly benefit to 70 % of current income and most will reduce your benefit when you become eligible for SSI which is the federal disability program through the US government . Next factor to consider will be how long can you live without drawing a monthly benefit ? This is the elimination period . An elimination period can be 30-60-90-180-360 days before you begin to receive benefits . The longer the elimination period the lower your monthly premiums . If you find you need benefits in less time than 30 days , it may be necessary to purchase a short term disability plan as well as a long term disability plan . The last factor to consider is the benefit period or how long you need benefits to pay in case of a total disability . Benefit periods can be as short as 2 years or can reach out to age 67 years old with many options in between . I highly recommend using an independent experienced disability broker to help you build the proper coverage for your unique situation at the best price possible .
Determining whether a disability will qualify you for a claim depends upon the policy 's `` definition of disability '' . It 's not something where one type of disability is covered and another may not be just because it 's a different kind . It 's about whether your specific disability is covered under policy 's definition of disability . The definition of disability is the most important factor under any disability insurance policy . A disability insurance policy will have 1 of 3 definition options -LRB- varies by carrier - some may only offer one definition , others may offer more than one as it would then depend upon type of disability policy being set up -LRB- e.g. long-term vs. short-term , group vs. individual , etc. -RRB- -RRB- - 1 -RRB- True Own Occupation , 2 -RRB- Modified Own Occupation , and 3 -RRB- Gainful Occupation . True Own Occupation is the most desirable definition you can have on a disability policy . This says that you are considered completely disabled if -LRB- due to injury or sickness -RRB- you are not able to perform the duties of your job , EVEN IF YOU ARE WORKING AT ANOTHER JOB -LRB- this last part is key ! -RRB- . Modified Own Occupation is the most common definition that policies offer in today 's marketplace . Under this definition , you are completely disabled if -LRB- due to injury or sickness -RRB- you are not able to perform the duties of your job , AND ARE NOT WORKING IN ANY OTHER JOB -LRB- again , this last part is key ! -RRB- . Gainful Occupation is typically seen in group disability policies and policies offered by property and casualty companies that offer disability policies . This definition is the most stringent saying that you ca n't work in your own occupation and unable to work in any gainful occupation for a period of time -LRB- e.g. 12 months , 24 months , etc. - can vary by company -RRB- . Also , whether you want to buy a short-term disability policy or a long-term disability policy is important too . You can have a combination of both . I would recommend reviewing your needs and goals with an independent agent who works with multiple carriers and can help determine the program structure that will best serve your needs because disability policies are very customizable as there are a number of additional options to choose from that affect the rates . It 's not a `` just pick and choose who has the lowest rates '' type of insurance - you really want to make sure you 've got the right coverage for what you 're trying to accomplish . I hope the information is helpful - please feel free to contact me for help with your coverage and if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
If you have to choose between buying short or long term disability insurance , most people select long term disability insurance . That is because most people can survive a few months of not having an income , but it is difficult for most people to go without their paycheck for many months or years . If you are trying to decide whether to buy any disability insurance at all , it depends on your income -LRB- whether your family depends on it -RRB- , your health and occupation -LRB- whether you qualify for a policy -RRB- , and the cost of the policy -LRB- whether you can afford it -RRB- . If you are living on minimum wage , buying long term disability insurance is not going to fit in your budget . If you are the breadwinner in your family , do n't have a large amount of savings , and have a moderate to good standard of living , it is almost essential to do long term disability insurance .
The number of years of Term Life Insurance you should get depends on your age and the needs you are trying to cover . Your health , build , smoking status and existing coverage may also enter into your decision . Age and Needs : E.g. . If you are a young person with young children , you will probably want at least 20-30 year term insurance . At a young age you will get a great rate , and that way you will have the premium locked in until your children are on their own . If you are older , you may want to take a shorter term because your premium is higher and your children are almost grown . This is just one example of how age and needs enter into your decision . Health : If you have a chronic health condition , it is a good idea to lock your term rate in for as long as you can afford -LRB- as long as you have a need for coverage that long -RRB- . Even if your health condition remains controlled , just developing one more health condition can cause your rates to jump very high . While your health is stable is the time to lock in that rate for a long time . Build : Almost everyone who is overweight thinks they will lose weight , and many decide to put off buying life insurance until that happens . Unfortunately , even if they lose weight , they have to keep it off for some time before it will lower their life insurance premium . And in the interim , their beneficiaries have no protection at all . A cost effective , wiser option -LRB- in my opinion -RRB- for those who think they will lose weight , is to take a short term policy now . At least then you have coverage , and if you never do lose weight , you can convert your term to permanent later on . On the other hand , if you are at an ideal weight now , again , lock that premium in for as long as you can . Smoking Status : This is similar to the weight issue . If you plan to quit smoking , you may want to take a short term policy now to save money . Existing Coverage : If you already have a long term policy locked in and just need additional coverage for a short time , you might choose a short term policy . You will want to look at what you have now before you decide how many years of Term insurance to add to your portfolio . These are just some examples to help you decide how long the term should be in the life insurance you choose . Give me a call if you 'd like me to help you decide in your situation .
How does long term disability insurance work ? Well you get to choose how long before it starts and how long it runs along with features that take effect when the policy is used . All of these aspect effect your cost . Actually long term disability is a very easy product to choose from as you can get a grid of waiting period and payout period on a spreadsheet to help put your policy together . You can choose when the policy starts , when it ends and if it grows with inflation or allows for partial disability and payments .
Suze Orman recommends long-term care insurance , if it fits and one can medically qualify for it . She is currently taking care of her 90-year old mother who refused to letSuze buy long-term care insurance on her when she could have qualified for it . Of course , Suze has the means to keep her mother at home to the tune of about $ 25,000 / month . That 's what 24/7 skilled nursing care costs at this point in time . A facility would cost less , but mom naturally wants to stay home as long as possible . Suze is fortunate to have the means to have that happen . Ironically , Suze waited too long to apply for her own long-term care insurance . In waiting , she developed some type of medical condition that precluded her from qualifying for coverage when she did apply . In virtually all of her commentary on planning for retirement , Suze mentions the need to at least explore the financial prudence of applying for some amount of long-term care insurance . Long-term care insurance is not for everyone . But , everyone should have a plan for being taken care of during late life and insurance might be part of that plan .
end question
start question
medicare-insurance
When Can I Change My Medicare HMO ?
You can change Medicare Plans and prescription drug plans every year from October 7 to December 15th . You can also change plans if you move out of the service area or lose your coverage . If you qualify for Extra Help with prescriptions or are on Medicaid you can change anytime during the year . These are called Special Election Periods .
Some people like a Medicare HMO plan , some do n't . As long as you are comfortable with the HMO concept there is no reason to make a change during enrollment periods . With an HMO you only have coverage when using a par provider . Exceptions are made in the case of a true medical emergency . Non-par charges are not included in your out of pocket cap .
HMO 's cover the same medical services that traditional major medical insurance plans , either group or individual cover . The essential difference is in the provider network used to deliver these benefits and how the subscriber 's access to their benefits is guided by this approach . HMO stands for Health Maintenance Organization and while there are variations on the theme , in its purest form an HMO has an exclusive network of contracted providers that must be used by subscribers to the HMO in order to receive covered services . In this context an HMO would not pay for services a member receives from a non-HMO provider . Also , HMO 's often use a `` gatekeeper '' approach that requires a referral from a Primary Care Physician before the member can receive care from a specialist or other HMO provider for non-emergency services . Theoretically the HMO concept assures that your Primary Care Physician is overseeing the member 's complete range of health care services and treatment , makes sure that care is being delivered in the most appropriate and cost effective setting and manner , and maximizes the overall efficiency of the delivery of health care to its members . In practical terms the HMO concept has generally fared best in higher population density areas that have an extensive and competitive medical infrastructure in place . One of the main reasons for this is that the HMO providers can actually be employees of the HMO or have negotiated deep discounts for their services with the HMO in exchange for a high volume of patient traffic . Accomplishing this in a metropolitan area like Los Angeles is far easier than in a rural area where there may be not be many competing providers and hospitals and these providersare already serving virtually all of the area 's population . Also , the more restrictive and controlling nature of the HMO concept has not always been welcomed by the American consumer who has been accustomed to making their own choices when it comes to selecting their doctors , hospitals and pharmacies and having a high degree of freedom in when and where they access the health care system . While HMOs can deliver excellent benefits and services at attractive rates , the potential consumer should also consider the trade offs involved in achieving these ends . If the consumer finds the HMO network to be sufficient for their perceived needs and understands therules of being an HMO member it can be a very positive environment in which to receive one 's health care . Going into an HMO without understanding and accepting these factors can lead to a very unsatisfactory and perhaps costly experience .
The 1st post was made in 2014 ... SO MUCH HAS CHANGED ... in my state I start with 2 questions . # 1 -RRB- What will you make this year - So I can assess if the person is , or is not , eligible for subsidies . If NOT , we do n't mess with Healthcare.gov -LRB- or the state site if there is one -RRB- . Question # 2 -RRB- WHO do you want to see when you need service ? WHO IS MORE important than the rate you pay . In my state we had ALL PPO 's before this year . Now there are also carrier options with an EPO & POS . No HMO 's in my state as of now . Yet the HMO model is prevalent in many states . Who When Pre-authorization Gate Keepers Out of Network Traveling & many other factors make up WHO ... The network type & size IS YOUR HEALTH INSURANCE . Do n't settle for a tiny network that has no out of network coverage . Go PPO if you can ... .
Why buy whole life insurance ? Well I bought whole life for several reasons , maybe they apply to someone else , maybe not . Life insurance is a personal choice . I can only really tell you why I bought it over term . First , I planned on living as long as possible , term does not work if I do that . Then I like that the death benefit increased over time to help battle inflation . I liked that the cash values were mine to do with what ever I like with . I do n't have to ask permission to take money out or put money back , it is mine to decide . I like that the price is locked in . I like that the insurance company can not come back later and increase my costs . I have control . I like that when my health changed and I became uninsurable that I had policies I controlled that they could n't price me out of or change the terms of . They were mine , purchased when my health was excellent . Twenty years later , when my health went south , the policies did n't . I like that my cash values did n't count against my kids FASFA contribution count . I really like that in 2008 when my real estate , market investments all took a big dump on my portfolio , my whole life did n't go backwards in value . In fact that year it was my most profitable portfolio item . I like going to sleep at night knowing my policies will be there for my family if I do not awake , but I really like that these policies will not let me down or be subject to the extreme market ups and downs that the rest of my portfolio is . This is just a few things I can mention . There are many many more but hey it comes down to what you actually want to happen , not what somebody else tells you what you should want . If it does n't fit what you want , do n't buy it .
Medicare Advantage plans come in different flavors including the HMO . In evaluating which plan is best for you , consider the following . Advantage HMO plans have limited networks . If your current doctor is not in the network you will need to switch doctors if you want your treatment covered . HMO plans generally offer in network coverage only . If you receive treatment outside the network you are responsible for 100 % of the charges . Exceptions apply for emergency medical situations . Your out of pocket limit -LRB- usually $ 3000 - $ 6000 -RRB- does not include out of network expenses . If you want more flexibility and would rather not deal with out of network penalties , you may want to consider a Medicare supplement plan . Original Medicare is accepted nationwide , there are no networks , and the supplement plan picks up approved Medicare charges that are not paid due to deductibles and coinsurance . For many , Medigap plan N or Hi F is a good alternative to a Medicare Advantage HMO plan .
Some people like a Medicare HMO plan , some do n't . As long as you are comfortable with the HMO concept there is no reason to make a change during enrollment periods . With an HMO you only have coverage when using a par provider . Exceptions are made in the case of a true medical emergency . Non-par charges are not included in your out of pocket cap .
It depends a lot on what state you are in . Humana does have HMO & PPO Medicare Advantage plans . However , people often confuse what they know about health insurance prior to turning 65 with health insurance after they turn 65 . There are big differences . It is no longer about HMO or PPO . All Medicare Advantage , HMO & PPO are basically in the same category which is a Medicare Advantage plan . It really becomes a question of do you want a Medicare Advantage plan or a Medicare Supplement plan -LRB- Medigap -RRB- ? One of the great features of a Medicare Supplement plan is there is `` no network '' so you can go to any doctor or hospital in any state you want . If they take Medicare they will take the Medicare Supplement regardless of carrier .
HMO is a health maintenance organization . HMO 's come in different flavors but most share similar structures . With most HMO 's you have a PCP -LRB- primary care provider -RRB- that directs all your care , including referrals to other HMO network providers . In rare situations they will make a referral to a non-network provider . Some folks do n't like the `` tight rein '' HMO 's use to direct your care . In many cases HMO 's have a higher standard of care -LRB- vs PPO or POS -RRB- and better outcomes .
They reimburse by the Medicare fee schedules and any negotiated arrangements they may have entered into with the HMO . There are experiments going on around the nation where different payment methodologies are being tested out to try and find that perfect balance of quality care and affordability . So , it 's never really been possible to give one answer to your question and in today 's environment that is doubly true . As a general rule , HMO 's were designed originally around a per member per month payment model though this approach has also gone through many variations over the years . In a very real sense you can say that Medicare Advantage plans are HMO 's or have more HMO like features than conventional Medicare does .
A Medicare Advantage HMO plan is similar to major medical HMO plans . With a Medicare Advantage HMO you are required to use par doctors , hospitals and other medical providers in the HMO network . If you use non-par providers , in most cases , you have no coverage . Exceptions are made for par provider referrals to non-par providers and for true medical emergency 's .
Medicare HMO Blue would , most likely , be a Medicare Part C -LRB- Medicare Advantage -RRB- plan . Medicare Advantage plans , like Medicare HMO Blue , take the place of traditional Medicare Parts A & B and are sold through private insurance companies that are contracted annually through Medicare to offer these plans . For people on Medicare , Advantage plans are an alternative to having `` original '' Medicare .
Medicare Advantage HMO , sometimes referred to as Medicare Part C , is available through private insurance carriers that contract with Medicare to provide health insurance for Medicare beneficiaries . This particular type of HMO usually has very limited networks bound by county or zip code . Most HMO plans only have coverage in network . If you venture outside the network , except for a medical emergency , you have no coverage .
This truly depends on your zipcode as well . Medicare Advantage plans include Hmo , Hmo-Pos , PPO and PFFS plans . Hmo-pos plans work like a ppo in the sense that you have in and out of network benefits -LRB- out of network benefit co pays are normally a little higher -RRB- . Here in Chicago we have many awesome Hmo-Pos plans that not only allow in and out of network benefits but also can include part D , Dental , Vision and other benefits .
This is really a question of what you prefer . An HMO describes a plan that pays it 's doctors and other providers a flat fee per patient . You must choose a primary care physician and they are responsible for your care . They usually do n't get to bill for their services , they have to make do with what they get . They will be your first call or visit and will manage your referrals and other care . They are usually part of a hospitals system and your inpatient care will be within that hospital system . You have less control over the providers you utilize than with a PPO . A PPO is n't really a health insurance plan , it 's a network of physicians , hospitals and other providers . Many health insurance companies may utilize a PPO to control their costs . This is a fee for service arrangement where the provider bills the company for your care and you must use the hospitals in the network to get your highest benefit level . You can usually chose your doctors and hospitals and you have more control than with an HMO . The health insurance companies save money by using a PPO because the providers have to agree to get paid on the PPO 's fee schedule to gain access to the patients . Historically , and HMO is less expensive than a plan using a PPO . This is because the HMO has more control over your care and they also have more control over a providers compensation . This is really a question of preference . If you 're OK with the HMO dictating where you go and who you see for your care , this would be a great option for you and you 'll probably save some money . However , If you 'd like to be the one to choose who you see for your care , you 'd probably be more comfortable with a PPO arrangement . Just realize that you 'll probably have to pay a little more for that freedom .
Medicare HMO insurance plans are a form of Medicare Advantage . With a Medicare Advantage plan you are no longer in original Medicare but in a private form of Medicare . You are limited to using their approved doctors only . When you receive treatment outside of the HMO network you have no coverage , except in the case of a true medical emergency .
You have asked a very complicated question . There is no simple answer , but I will try to give you an idea . Medicare has 4 parts . Part A is hospital insurance and has no premium . Part B is your health insurance and pretty much covers everything covered by Medicare other than hospital costs and post hospital skilled nursing . The premium for that varies according your your income . For most people , it is currently $ 104.90 per month -LRB- 2013 -RRB- and if you are taking your Social Security , it is deducted from your monthly payment . Part A and B constitute Original Medicare . Medicare Part C established Medicare Advantage plans , and Part D is prescription drug coverage . If you select an advantage plan , your insurance will be provided by an insurance company . These usually take the form of an HMO or PPO and have generally the same restrictions and exposure as a non Medicare HMO or PPO . Most include prescription drug coverage so you wo n't need a Part D. However , make sure your particular prescriptions are covered . If you select Original Medicare , you will probably want to choose a Medicare Supplement , or Medigap policy . These plans have a monthly premium , and do n't cover prescription drugs , but do lower your exposure to big expenses . Most of the plans do not have copayments . You can choose a supplement that covers all of the things that are covered by Medicare and lower your risk to virtually zero . While the plans are standardized , the premiums will vary from state to state and from company to company . If you choose a supplement , you will also need to pick a Part D prescription drug plan . The costs for these also vary and are influenced by the particular prescriptions you take . You can learn more at the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services , www.cms.gov .
HMO is short for Health Maintenance Organization . Essentially , an HMO is a network of providers -LRB- doctors , specialist , hospitals , faculties -RRB- who have contracted with an insurance company to submit claims for visits and procedures given to the insurers membership . Typically an HMO will only pay for visits to doctors in their network and does not allow for services provided by doctors not contracted with them . As a member of an HMO , your care is driven by a Primary Care Physician who usually acts as the first source of diagnosis . The are often called the `` gatekeeper '' because access to specialists services or high end procedures need to go through the PCP . The PCP will determine the medical necessity of the specialist or procedure and make a referral .
HMO stands for Health Maitence Organization . It is the most basic form of managed care that one can get . It is characterized by having a primary care phycisian PCP who is entrusted to effectively implement `` utilization management '' processes -LRB- cost containment procedures to effectivly deliver effective medical care -RRB- . One who has a HMO policy is generally called a member or subscriber , and must recieve a referal from their PCP before they seek specialist treatment . HMO 's also utilize `` networks '' that limit costs but can also limit ones choices when it comes to what Dr they can see .
That is a great question ! The terms used in life insurance policies can be confusing . There are three entities in a policy - the owner , the insured , and the beneficiary . The easiest one is the beneficiary - the person or entity -LRB- trust , estate , etc. -RRB- that receives the benefits from the policy . They receive these benefits when the insured passes away . The insured is the person whose need was the reason for the policy . Here 's where it can be confusing . The owner is the person who has legal rights to the policy on the insured . That legal title gives them right to change some of the moving parts of the policy , including the beneficiary . In many cases , the owner and the insured are the same person . I buy a policy on my own life . I am the owner and the insured , and I name my wife as my beneficiary . I retain the option to change the beneficiary -LRB- should she pass first God forbid -RRB- and the right to use the cash value within the policy . If I bought a policy for my children , I would own the policy , but my child would be the insured , and my wife and I the beneficiaries . I can transfer that ownership to my child once they are able to make the payments , and manage the policy successfully . Once they own the policy , they are free to change the beneficiary to whomever they choose -LRB- their wife or child , say -RRB- . Hopefully that clears things up for you . If it does n't please feel free to contact me , and I 'll walk you through it some more . Thank you for asking !
end question
start question
medicare-insurance
Does Medicare And Medicaid Cover Assisted Living ?
Medicare is insurance coverage for `` medical care '' and does not cover the costs of assisted living facilities or long-term care facilities -LRB- custodial care -RRB- . Medicare will however cover qualified healthcare costs while a Medicare beneficiary is living at an assisted living facility . Medicare is more often used to pay for a skilled nursing facility or home health care . There are always exceptional circumstances that will allow Medicare to cover different types of care , for example , while in a qualified stay at a skilled nursing facility a Medicare beneficiary may also receive custodial care , but in most cases Medicare wont cover the costs of `` custodial care . '' In some states , Medicaid will pay for some of the costs associated with assisted livingif a qualified beneficiary has a limited income . Medicaid is designed to help seniors and some individuals with disabilities pay for healthcare when they are unable to pay for it themselves . Check on qualification requirements and available waiver programs for assisted living with your state Medicaid department . Individuals should seek out an extended care insurance specialist to understand options and formulate a plan to financially address assisted living or long term care needs before any such care may be needed . Jeffrey J. VanCleve 800-211-0017
Medicare is insurance coverage for `` medical care '' and does not cover the costs of assisted living facilities or long-term care facilities -LRB- custodial care -RRB- . Medicare will however cover qualified healthcare costs while a Medicare beneficiary is living at an assisted living facility . Medicare is more often used to pay for a skilled nursing facility or home health care . There are always exceptional circumstances that will allow Medicare to cover different types of care , for example , while in a qualified stay at a skilled nursing facility a Medicare beneficiary may also receive custodial care , but in most cases Medicare wont cover the costs of `` custodial care . '' In some states , Medicaid will pay for some of the costs associated with assisted livingif a qualified beneficiary has a limited income . Medicaid is designed to help seniors and some individuals with disabilities pay for healthcare when they are unable to pay for it themselves . Check on qualification requirements and available waiver programs for assisted living with your state Medicaid department . Individuals should seek out an extended care insurance specialist to understand options and formulate a plan to financially address assisted living or long term care needs before any such care may be needed . Jeffrey J. VanCleve 800-211-0017
You wont be able to use Medicare to pay for rent , meals , or anything non-medical related at an assisted living facility . Assisted living facilities are considered to be non-medical senior housing . If you live at an assisted living facility , you can continue to use your Medicare coverage for medical needs covered under Part A and Part B . Some people purchase long-term care insurance policies to help with the cost of an assisted living facility . You can also check with your local Medicaid office to see if you qualify for assistance . Medicaid is highly needs-based and the duration of stay at a facility is limited .
No . If you have full Medicaid assistance you no longer need a Medigap Supplement policy . Everything that is not covered by Medicare will be covered by Medicaid . However you should make sure you are on full Medicaid . There are some people who get Medicaid assistance that pays their Medicare Part B Premium and RX assistance but does not pay their Medicare co-pays or deductibles .
In the vast majority of situations the answer is no . Medicaid is a state-run insurance program designed to help low income persons pay for their health care . As a general rule you must not be able to afford to pay for private health insurance in order to qualify for Medicaid . However , this is a government program we 're talking about so there are always some exceptions buried in the fine print . This is where things can get complicated and the rules can vary from state to state in some situations . Some state Medicaid programs will assist in paying private insurance premiums for a person who can not fully pay them . A low income person who has recently lost their job and their health insurance through their former job may be eligible for assistance in paying their COBRA premiums in some states . You would have to check with your state 's Medicaid office to learn what the rules are in your particular state . Also , you have a limited amount of time to apply for such assistance after losing your job in states that provide this type of assistance so time is of the essence . Medicaid also has a special program for people diagnosed with AIDS that may qualify them for premium payment assistance . Once again , you will need to check with your state 's Medicaid office to determine what their policies and procedures are for qualifying for such assistance .
Medicare is not intended to help pay for assisted living . Medicare part A covers hospitalization , part B covers doctors services and medical supplies , and part D covers prescription drugs . Approved medical procedures delivered in an assisted living setting may be covered by Medicaid . However the cost of support for your activities of daily living would not be covered . Medicaid provides this coverage , but only after assets are spent down to under $ 2,000 .
Medicare does not cover Assisted Living at all . Medicare is very limited on its long term care benefits . You can only get assistance if you are hospitalized for three days , not counting day of discharge , and require skilled care . You can only stay in a nursing home for a maximum of 100 days . the first 20 days are covered in full as long as you meet the requirements , day 21 through 100 you will have a copay . You may also quaify from limited rehab services in your home . If you need assisted living you may qualify for certain veterens benefits if you or your spouse served in the military during a period of war . Your only other option is Medicaid . If you have assets see a good elder law attorney or Medicaid planner . It could save you a large portion of your assets and allow you to get help faster .
Medicaid does n't actually `` take '' your life insurance . You just ca n't qualify for Medicaid assistance if you have more countable assets than Medicaid allows . In most states $ 2,000 is the total allowed to qualify for Medicaid assistance . Checking and savings accounts , retirement money , cash value of life insurance , etc. all count against you when qualifying for Medicaid . Many people will cash surrender their life insurance to qualify for Medicaid . You can also irrevocably assign it to your funeral home and it will be exempt but must be all used for funeral expenses if you do that . An actual funeral preplan life insurance policy that you purchase from a funeral home is always exempt from Medicaid .
The reason people buy Long Term Care Insurance is so that they have the resources to pay for home health care , assisted living care , nursing home care , or some other types of care that are needed if they are unable to take care of themselves independently . Some people with large estates get Long Term Care insurance because they do not want all their hard earned money or property go to paying a nursing home . Rates of $ 100,000 per year are not uncommon for skilled nursing care . In order to qualify for Medicaid to pay these expenses , resources must be spent down to almost nothing -LRB- if a spouse is at home , the spouse does get to keep half of the couple 's resources -RRB- . So having Long Term Care insurance to pay for these costs both helps preserve the estate and assists the spouse left at home , if applicable . One aspect of Long Term Care insurance that is not always considered is the freedom of choice that is offered to persons who carry insurance to cover chronic care expenses . If they have the right type of coverage , they can pay a relative to come live with them or choose home health care , if that works . If they must go to a nursing home , they have more choice in the facility they want to live in , versus having to go with the room arrangements or facilities that only Medicaid will cover . This is not to say that Long Term Care Insurance is for everyone . If you have very few resources and are already on Medicaid , or anticipate getting Medicaid benefits in the future , there is no need to purchase Long Term Care Insurance . And if you need to dip into grocery money , forego medical care , or lead a poor quality of life to pay for LTC insurance , that is not worth it . Consulting with agencies that can shop for these policies to get you the best rate , and also guide you through the decision whether and what to buy LTC insurance , is a great place to start .
Medicare does not cover assisted living costs in New Mexico , as it does not cover the cost of assisted living in any of the 50 United States . Medicare Part A will continue to cover hospitalization and other expenses that it covered before moving to assisted living , as will Part B , Part D , etc. . But the residential costs , food , custodial care , etc will not be covered by Medicare .
Medicare does not take life insurance from anyone . Medicare is a healthcare insurance program for those who have paid into it over the years -LRB- and some others -RRB- . Medicaid is an assistance program for those who have low income and low assets . If a person applying for Medicaid has term life insurance , it will not matter . If the Medicaid applicant has permanent life insurance with high cash value , there may be a need for the policy owner to take actions with the policy to enable them to be approved for Medicaid .
No , Medicare Part B does not cover the residential cost of assisted living . Once you enter an assisted living residence , your Medicare Part B will still cover what it did before : medical equipment , outpatient doctor visits , etc. . But , unfortunately , neither Medicare Part A or B will cover the costs of living in an assisted living facility .
Medigap is a supplemental health insurance policy that can be purchased to go along with Medicare Part A and Part B . It is used to cover the costs that Medicare does not cover . Medigap does not fit in with Medicaid as Medicaid covers all medical costs and does not have the `` gaps '' of coverage that Medicare does .
No , Medicare was never intended to be used for long term care . Medicare has very limited benefits when it comes to nursing home care and no benefits for assisted living . If you need help with assisted living and are being told by Medicaid that you have too many assets , a good care resource planner or elder law attorney may be able to help you preserve some of your assets and get you the help you need sooner .
First of all , there is no federal long-term care program . If a person is or becomes `` indigent '' by state standards , they may qualify to have their long-term care facility expenses paid for by Medicaid -LRB- Medical in CA -RRB- . There is a commission in Washington currently debating if there will be a federal long-term care program , but they will have no power to institute one and it 's doubtful that given our current budget deficit , a comprehensive program could be afforded by either the states or the feds -LRB- Medicaid is a jointly funded and administered medical program for the poor -RRB- . Private long-term care programs at this point in time consist of applying to an insurance company and going through full underwriting to determine insurability . If so , they are issued a long-term care policy of insurance . Only insurance agents that are certified to sell long term care -LRB- most states -RRB- can do so . There is a Partnership long-term care program in 36 states -LRB- plus charter Partnership programs still going in CA , CT , NY , and IN -RRB- . The state departments of health `` partner '' with the person with a Partnership-approved long-term care plan of insurance so that if they blow through the insurance policy maximum benefits and are still alive , the amount of the payout from the insurance company will increase the impoverishment threshold dollar-for-dollar for that person and if the insured 's personal non-exempt assets are lower than what the insurance company has paid out , Medicaid will take over payment of the person 's long-term care costs until s/he dies.Note that there are some limitations1 . The person needs to be in a facility for full payment of costs by Medicaid . -LRB- Home care reimbursement from Medicaid is under $ 300/mo . -RRB- 2 . A lien in the amount of money paid out by Medicaid is levied against the patient 's estate . -LRB- This is currently being debated and is a point of contention with some states and consumer groups . Whether it will actually be done is not certain , but it 's `` on the books '' . -RRB- 3 . While there is a promise that no discrimination will be made between `` Medicaid patients '' and `` paying patients '' in nursing facilities , audits of some facilities have found that there are , in fact , `` Medicaid rooms '' and regular rooms . When discovered , those facilities are supposedly ordered to make no distinction in treatment , care , or placement of patients based on their ability to pay.At this time , it is clear that there is a looming problem of how to take care of the elderly of the boomer generation as that demographic bubble passes through old age . And , though medical technology allows people to live longer , that life is not necessarily better . No solution has yet been proposed at the federal level . The problem will fall to Medicaid for now . Recent surveys have shown that only about 7-8 % of the population owns its own long-term care insurance . Some calculations indicate that Medicaid is solvent for only another 8-10 years as currently administered .
Yes . Eligibility rules for Medicaid is going to vary by state . Medicaid can help pay for services and costs that Medicare does n't cover . When you have both programs , Medicare pays first and Medicaid will pay second.If you qualify for Medicaid in your state , you automatically qualify for extra help paying for your Medicare Part D prescription drug coverage .
Yes . Eligibility rules for Medicaid is going to vary by state . Medicaid can help pay for services and costs that Medicare does n't cover . When you have both programs , Medicare pays first and Medicaid will pay second . If you qualify for Medicaid in your state , you automatically qualify for extra help paying for your Medicare Part D prescription drug coverage .
Medicare does cover Home Health Care , BUT only if : its ordered by a Medicare approved physician AND the person in incapable of leaving the home AND services are rendered by a Medicare approved provider AND the person requires more than just assistance with activities of daily living -LRB- eating , bathing , dressing , toileting , functional mobility -RRB- . Medicare will not pay for services performed by immediate relatives or members of a patients household . Medicare does not pay for Assisted Living or Adult Day Care . If these conditions are met , Medicare will generally cover medical services in the home as ordered by a Medicare approved physician .
It can be depending on the situation . In most cases if the proceeds are left to a named beneficiary then there are no estate issues . But there are exceptions to this . For example ; If a person is receiving Medicaid assistance for Long Term Care the cash value of a life insurance policy or in some States , the face amount will create issues as far as qualifying for benefits . If there was an undisclosed life insurance policy owned by the Medicaid recipient then the life insurance proceeds can be attached as part of the estate during Medicaid Recovery . Another exception may include large estates . For the average person there is no problem however , unless you have to deal with the Medicaid issues . If you have a large estate or your health is deteriorating and some type of long term care is imminent then seek out an elder law attorney or care resource planner for advice .
According to Social Security , you are automatically enrolled in Medicare after receiving disability benefits for two years . The two parts of Medicare coverage you are enrolled in are the hospital insurance and medical insurance . Hospital insurance -LRB- Part A -RRB- is established to help pay for your inpatient hospital bills and some of your follow-up care . The taxes you paid while working helped pay for Part A coverage , so it 's no cost to you . Medical insurance -LRB- Part B -RRB- is provided to help pay your doctors ' bills , outpatient hospital care , and some other medical services . If you choose to enroll in Part B , this coverage comes with a monthly premium . Some other parts of Medicare include : Medicare Advantage -LRB- Part C -RRB- Prescription Drug Coverage -LRB- Part D -RRB- Part C plans are made available in many areas across the country . Part C allows you to receive all of your health care services through medical plans offered by Medicare approved private companies . Once you are on Medicare , you also have access to Part D or Prescription Drug Coverage . This type of coverage helps pay for your doctor prescribed medication . If you are a Medicare Beneficiary with low-income , you may be able to get assistance through your state for the payment of your Medicare premiums . To see if you qualify for assistance , it is best to contact your state or local Medicaid agency or welfare office .
end question
start question
life-insurance
What Is Birla Sun Life Insurance ?
Birla Sun Life Insurance Company Limited -LRB- BSLI -RRB- is a joint venture between Aditya Birla Group of India and Sun Life Financial Inc of Canada . Birla Sun Life Insurance Company provides life insurance products to the residents of India . The life insurance sold by this company is not sold in the US .
Birla Sun Life Insurance Company is a joint venture between the Aditya Birla Group and Sun Life Financial , Inc. . It is a very large life insurance company in India.The AUM of Birla Sun Life Insurance is close to Rs 22,929 crs and it has a capital base of over Rs . 2,450 crs as on Mar 31 , 2013 . Sun Life Financial is a highly rated company , as is the Aditya Birla Financial Services Group -LRB- ABFSG -RRB- .
Birla Sun Life Insurance Company Limited -LRB- BSLI -RRB- is a joint venture between Aditya Birla Group of India and Sun Life Financial Inc of Canada . Birla Sun Life Insurance Company provides life insurance products to the residents of India . The life insurance sold by this company is not sold in the US .
Birla life insurance is life insurance sold through the Birla Sun Life Insurance Company Limited . The company is a joint venture of Aditya Birla Group of India , and Sun Life Financial , Inc , of Canada . Birla life insurance is primarily sold in India and is a very big part of the life insurance industry there .
Damage to an automobile that is not the result of a collision is known as a comprehensive loss . If you have that coverage it would not pay for sun damage which is the result of long term exposure to the sun . The principle is that the company will return the car to the condition it was in before the event after satisfying the deductible . If you file a claim for sun damage on Tuesday , the company would be obligated to return it to the condition it was in on Monday .
All the above answers are good and correct . If you mean which company offers the lowest premiums for Whole Life , I would answer that in my experience , Mass Mutual , then the Guardian , and then NY Life . All 3 are mutual companies and their Whole Life policies receive dividends in addition to the guaranteed interest on the cash value portion of the policies . If you mean which company has the best performance with regard to their whole life policies cash values , again in my experience and to my knowledge the same 3 companies I named above and add NorthWestern and Sun Life . Of course what I like is the combination of lower premium and higher dividend interest rates that also buy more insurance while at the same time growing the cash value .
Sun life insurance is a Canadian life insurance company that offers life insurance and annuity products . They have one of the strongest balance sheets among their peers and appear to target executive benefits in their advertising . They were a career distribution channel and used brokerage distribution , but eliminated both from their marketing efforts .
Shockingly , a type of annuity was discovered in Egypt in 1700 BC . In 562 BC there is a passage in the Bible referring to a form of annuity . By the second century Roman soldiers were given a life annuity for service to the empire . For the next millennium , churches and monasteries used life annuities . In 1693 , Sir Edmund Halley , created the first mortality tables based on age for life annuities , the basic acturial science we use today . Nothings new under the sun .
If you currently have existing auto insurance , most insurance companies have a `` grace '' coverage period before you need to tell your agent or the company you brought a new car . I would check with your agent to see if your policy as this feature . If you do n't have insurance , you should get it before you can drive off into the sun set , or rather off the dealership lot .
If your present liabilities and future obligations are temporal , then term life insurance is a consideration . To determine your coverage you need to total your debts , your future obligations and your earning ability . The sun total of all this categories will give you an idea of the amount of coverage you need to protect your loved ones or business associates .
Trampolines are an attractive nuisance not unlike the pond on the back forty , They are the source of a lot of additional liability exposure to the policy and the homeowner . The biggest reason that liability increases is because more than one child or person is one the equipment at a time . Most families with a trampoline have n't established risk-based rules for use and enjoyment and so what looks to be a fun and exciting play thing , becomes a hazard teeming with potential to cause great bodily harm . Insurance companies know from experience that trampolines cause losses and are expensive to insure because the injuries can become catastrophic . Broken bones are one thing . A broken neck with paralysis is completely another but well within the outcomes on a trampoline . Add to the trampoline an almost complete lack of training or instruction on the correct methods of use -LRB- and the lack of appropriate rules for use -RRB- , and we find the trampoline becomes similar to a loaded gun just waiting for curious hands with just as much potential to destroy a healthful life . Another issue that crops us is the degradation of the platform fabric since it is exposed to weather and sunlight . People have been known to bust through the platform because it became degraded due to the sun and weather effects . Bones get broke hitting the found and frame members below the deck . In my experience , most companies do n't want anything to do with insuring a home with a trampoline . A relative few do n't charge additional premium and do n't restrict the presence of a trampoline . Others still will permit a trampoline when it is is present for coverage at an additional charge . One carrier we represent charges an additional $ 75 annually for the trampoline , requires the fences to be installed -LRB- most trampolines come with them -RRB- , and they wo n't provide insurance on the home unless the trampoline is also included in coverage . All in all , you do n't simply have the choice to not insure the trampoline since the mere act of having one dramatically increases the chances of having a loss ! That said , trampolines can be enjoyed safely but it requires careful and near constant monitoring by the responsible adults , the establishment of rules for use , the ability to protect the equipment from non-invited use by neighbors when the owner or their children are not using the equipment , and inspection periodically for signs of degradation and normal wear and tear . Additionally , basic skills should be discussed , taught and understood , limits should be placed on the behavior that is allowed on the trampoline , and responsible adults should be willing to stop all play when careful control can not be maintained . Many injuries occur when the parents are not paying attention or aware from the home . Let 's face it , no one wants to be sued for the liability that may arise out of an injury on a trampoline and no one wants to deal with the often catastrophic injuries that can occur to your children or the neighbors . These latter comments and insight are a good foundation for understanding why an insurance company does n't like trampolines and why homeowner insurance is often negatively influenced when they are present on the property .
Here is a list of companies , all A-rated , that Quality Term Life quotes on our website . American General Life Insurance Company American National Insurance Company Aviva Life and Annuity Company AXA Equitable Life Insurance Company Baltimore Life Insurance Company Banner Life Insurance Company Fidelity Life Association Genworth Life and Annuity Insurance Co John Hancock Life Insurance Company USA John Hancock Life Insurance Company NY Lincoln National Life Insurance Company MetLife Investors USA Insurance Company Minnesota Life Insurance Company MTL Insurance Company Nationwide Life and Annuity Insurance Co North American Co for Life and Health Ohio National Life Assurance Corporation Pruco Life Insurance Company ReliaStar Life Insurance Company -LRB- ING -RRB- ReliaStar Life Insurance of NY -LRB- ING -RRB- Royal Neighbors of America Sagicor Life Insurance Company Savings Bank Life Insurance Co of MA Securian Life Insurance Company Transamerica Financial Life Insurance Co Transamerica Life Insurance Company United Home Life Insurance Company United of Omaha Life Insurance Company Note that you will see many big names missing here . Like AAA , Farmers , State Farm , etc. . That 's because these companies require their agents to sell only their life insurance , in other words they are n't independent , so no shopping around for you . And their prices tend to be much higher for similar coverage .
Here is what Suze says about permanent insurance on her website : I HATE WHOLE LIFE INSURANCE I HATE UNIVERSAL LIFE INSURANCE I HATE VARIABLE LIFE INSURANCE THE ONLY TYPE I LIKE FOR THE PURPOSES FOR INSURING YOUR LIFE IS TERM INSURANCE ! If you are smart with the money you have today and you get rid of your mortgages , car loans and credit card debt and put money into retirement plans you dont need insurance 30 years from now to protect your family when you die . WEBSITELINK Lets think about this perspective for a second . She basically believes that family protection is the sole reason why people buy life insurance . Once the kids are out of the house , and you dont have any more debt , and you can afford to self-insure , you dont need a policy . This may be true for some people , but it is not true for many others . Consider some of the what ifs : What if your elder parents become dependent on you ? What if you need to secure a pension distribution ? What if you incur an estate tax obligation ? What if you want to leave a gift to your favorite charity ? What if you start a business when you retire as many people do and you need to indemnify a loan , or fund a partnership agreement ? These are all reasons for why people need life insurance after the family protection stage . They should be considered when people do their life insurance planning .
This is a really good question . Everybody asks it . You do have some options . Lets see what the ramifications would be of choosing each one . You could drop it when you feel it has outlived its use . Lets suppose you originally bought a policy for family protection . But now , the kids are out of the house . You probably feel you dont need life insurance any more . But what about the next stage of your life ? And the stage after that ? What if you need to maximize your pension distribution ? What if a child - or for that matter a parent - becomes dependent on you later in life ? What if you want to leave a legacy of charitable bequests ? What if you want to start a business after you retire , and need to indemnify a bank loan ? Sure , you could always pick up coverage at that point . You think . Assuming you qualify medically and otherwise . And assuming you want to pay the extra cost due to a higher age . Then again , you could drop it when you feel you can afford to self-insure . So now you have a accumulated a sizable portfolio of assets . Your net worth is right up there . Why should you pay for life insurance when there is so much money at the disposal of your heirs ? But if you have demonstrated such savvy in reaching this pinnacle of success , you would certainly consider the following : What percentage of your asset portfolio is liquid ? Life insurance would pay your beneficiaries within days . If any bills have to get paid right off the bat , they will need liquidity . What about a estate equalization ? Some of your heirs may be in business with you and therefore inherit the firm . What about your children who are not working with you ? You probably want to take care of them as well . Life insurance could give them the same value as those children who inherit your business property . How about estate taxation ? Why would you want to pay Uncle Sam a ton of money dollar for dollar when you could have a life insurance policy take care of that obligation for pennies on the dollar ? The bottom line is that you could drop your life insurance any time you want . You just need to be prepared to face the consequences .
If you were to cover every contingency of life with life insurance , you probably could not afford that much . Life insurance is a wonderful resource for the `` what if 's '' of life , but the `` what if 's '' can be endless . What if you died leaving your family without your income . What if before you died , you used up all your savings on doctor bills . Then , what if your spouse died shortly after you . What if the person you designated to care for your children , had just lost their job . What if ... . No one can have enough life insurance to cover every possible tragedy . But you can have enough life insurance to give your loved ones a chance . Providing them with enough income to give them time to adjust to life without you , without having to worry about getting a new job -LRB- or adding a second job to the one they already have -RRB- , is a good place to start . Giving them enough to live on until your children are grown , or for 10 years , is also a reasonable amount .
A nearly impossible question to answer . How much premium can you afford ? What carrier are you purchasing coverage with ? What is your health/medical history ? What is your family/medical history ? What is your occupation ? What is your geographic location ? What is you age ? What is you height/weight ? These are just some of the factors used to determine the amount of coverage and the premium that you would pay for that coverage ; that a carrier might use . Most carriers will handle coverage rates up to one million on a regular basis . Contact a local agent to find out what would be available to you .
here is a good chance you will . Lets cover some of the what ifs : What if you need to maximize your pension distribution by taking it out during your lifetime only ? Life insurance will help you cover your spouse . What if you have any remaining debts , such as a second mortgage ? Or if you have any dependents , such as a child who still need some financial assistance ? Life insurance would protect them . What if you want a really strong guaranteed portion of your asset portfolio ? The guarantees in life insurance cash value contracts are very competitive . What if your net worth is high and you want to preserve your estate from federal and state taxation ? Life insurance would allow you to protect your assets and still pay the government . What if you have formed very strong ties with a charity , and would like to support it as a legacy ? Life insurance can turn a comparatively small premium into a very substantial gift for them . Its kind of surprising , isnt it , about how our need for life insurance can basically last our entire life !
I am sorry to hear about your financial difficulties . Before surrendering your Whole Life Policy please consider that you will no longer have coverage and if you were to apply in the future the cost will be more than what you are locked into now . That said , you may have some options available to you . First , have you considered just withdrawing or taking a loan from the cash value ? This way the policy will still be in force . Be sure to understand what the surrender value is as well on the policy . It may mean you will get less out of the policy than what you were thinking . Please consider what will happen if death was to occur in the next 5 years , 10 years , etc. and what financial situation this may put you in . I would recommend contacting your Broker/agent to discuss your options . If you do not have one , I would be more than happy to look over what you have and make any recommendations based on what your needs are and what is available from the policy . This is a free service . Feel free to contact me at : mattb@denverwestip.info or call me at -LRB-720-RRB-708-5498 .
It depends on many factors , but here are the main factors for price . 1 -RRB- What 's the policy type ? 2 -RRB- What 's the face amount ? 3 -RRB- What 's your gender ? 4 -RRB- What 's your age ? 5 -RRB- What 's your general health like ? 6 -RRB- Are you a tobacco user ? What you should look at are basically two main questions . What does the life insurance cover and how much do I need ? Cost is a factor for a policy , but it 's much more important to get the right policy with the riders you 'll need .
1 . Is there an annual deductible ? 2 . What is the maximum annual out of pocket costs ? 3 . What does it cost to see a doctor ? 4 . What is the cost of lab work and x-rays ? 5 . What is the cost of outpatient surgery ? 6 . What is the cost of a hospital stay ? 7 . What are the wellness benefits ? 8 . What do prescription drugs cost ? The most important question to ask with respect to buying health insurance now is are my doctors in the network ?
end question
start question
life-insurance
What Is Surrender Value Of A Life Insurance Policy ?
The surrender value of your life insurance policy is the amount of money you can walk away with if you cancel your policy today and cash surrender it . With whole-life insurance , the surrender value is guaranteed to always go up each year . It will never decrease as long as you are paying your scheduled premiums . There wo n't usually be any surrender value during the first two or three policy years .
The surrender value of a life insurance policy is the amount that you would get from the insurance company if you decided to drop the policy before it matures or before death occurs . It is the amount of savings that built up in your policy , minus any surrender charges -LRB- surrender charges occur during the early years of the policy -RRB- . The surrender value can be rolled over into a new policy or taken as cash .
When talking about cash value in life insurance policies it is important to differentiate between the policy value and the surrender value . For example , in a universal life insurance policy the policy value -LRB- or fund value -RRB- would be the accumulated cash value which is earning interest . However , almost all universal life insurance policies have a decreasing surrender charge schedule . This means that if you were to surrender the policy in the early years the surrender charge could reduce most -LRB- or all -RRB- of the value you receive . The value you would receive is called the net surrender value , because it is net of all charges . At some point , say 10 or 20 years down the road , the surrender charges will go away and the policy value will equal the net surrender value . This is part of the reason why cash value life insurance should always be looked at as a long term proposition .
When you cancel your life insurance , what happens will depend on what type of policy you have . If you have Term Life insurance , the policy will simply end . You will not get any money back unless you had ROP Term -LRB- Return of Premium Term -RRB- and had kept the policy long enough that you are eligible to receive back part of the premiums you paid in . If you have a Permanent Life insurance policy that accumulated cash value , you will be able to receive the surrender value in cash . If you want to quit paying on your Permanent policy but do n't necessarily want to cancel your insurance , you could roll the surrender value over into another life insurance policy . Or you may have the option to change your policy to a reduced paid up policy , which means that it will be a smaller policy but you will not have to make any more payments to it . If you cancel a permanent policy in the first years , there will be a surrender charge that will reduce the cash value , and if you have loans against the policy , those will also be deducted from what you receive from the cash value , along with interest on the loans . You can request a current illustration to see what your Whole Life or Universal Life has for cash value , surrender charges and loan charges .
That is a great question ! The surrender value is the money that the insurance company returns to you if you were to cancel or `` surrender '' the policy before it reaches it 's expected end . Term life policies will have no surrender value , as they have no value unless they pay out . Whole life policies build a cash value , and it is from this that your returns come . The surrender value is nearly always less than the cash value , as the company will collect fees and charges from that value before releasing it to you . Your policy paperwork will usually list the surrender value . I hope that helps , thanks for asking !
Cash surrender value in lie insurance is the amount of money you would walk away with if you decided to end a permanent policy before you passed away , or before the policy matured . Term life insurance does not have any cash value , so has no cash surrender value . In Whole Life or Universal Life , there is a surrender charge deducted from the cash value the first years , so there may be little or no cash surrender value until you have had the Whole Life or Universal Life policy for a few years . The amount of surrender value will depend on how you funded the policy , whether you had any loans out against it , policy performance , and length of time the policy was in effect .
The surrender value of life insurance is the amount that the policy owner would receive if they terminated their cash value policy . There is only a surrender to permanent policies -LRB- Whole or Universal Life -RRB- ; there is no surrender value to Term Insurance policies . The surrender value is the cash value minus any surrender charges or fees that are charged .
When you surrender your life insurance policy , your coverage ends and you stop paying premiums . The insurance company will pay the cash surrender value of the policy which will take a week or two . The cash surrender value is less than the total cash value in the early years of a policy due to a surrender charge which is usually a charge that decline to zero over a period of 5-20 years , depending on the policy . Any policy loans outstanding also reduce the cash value . If you have any gain in the policy - cash surrender value less premiums - then it will be taxable as income .
When you say NWML , I assume you are referring to Northwestern Mutual Life . Since I 'm not a NWML agent , it 's hard to comment on the specifics of the carrier 's product , but can hopefully provide some general insight for this type of program . These types of policies typically feature a combination structure of part whole life and part term insurance . Whole life insurance can not be converted to an annuity , nor can term life insurance . If the policy was surrendered for the cash value of the whole life side of the policy -LRB- term life insurance does not build cash value -RRB- , the monies could be used towards an annuity . Please note , if there is a loan -LRB- and any interest on the loan -RRB- on the policy , any remaining surrender charges , the dollar amount you receive can be lower than the policy 's cash value -LRB- think : cash value - loans - interest on loans - surrender charges = amount you actually receive -RRB- . Also , you may want to verify whether there would be a taxable gain on the policy before surrendering it -LRB- the cash value in the policy exceeds the premiums paid into it -RRB- . Also , the only way a whole life insurance policy pays a dividend to the policyowner is if the policy is a participating whole life policy -LRB- non-participating policies do not offer any dividend structure - only the build-up of cash value -RRB- . I hope the information is helpful - please feel free to contact me for help and if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
The policy owner can surrender their cash value policy and the insurance company will give them the cash surrender value net of any policy loans or surrender charges . As life insurance is property , the policy owner may sell their life insurance policy . This has developed in recent years into a secondary market for unwanted or unneeded life policies called life settlements . Not all policies are valued higher than the cash surrender value . To find out more , ask your life insurance professional for guidance in this area . Family members or charities may also be potential new owners for life insurance you might currently own . There may be planning and/or tax advantages to consider . Again , check with a life insurance professional or your tax adviser for more information .
The net cash value on a life insurance policy is the net cash value you would receive if you surrendered your policy . -LRB- Not including tax if applicable -RRB- With whole life policies this is the sum of the guaranteed cash value plus any dividends less any indebtedness . With Universal life policies , there is often a surrender charge for the first number of years . So the net cash surrender value would be calculated as cash value less loans and surrender charge -LRB- if applicable -RRB- . If you have further questions , or feel that I could be of assistance , please do not hesitate to contact me . If you would like to work with a local life insurance broker , you could start with a Google search . For example , if you search for : life insurance broker Halifax or life insurance agent Halifax , my name , along with several others , will come up . You can use the same method to find a life insurance broker in your community .
Life Insurance Cash Surrender Value is what will be returned to you if you cancel a permanent life insurance policy that has a cash value available . This surrender value may be less than the actual cash value as all loans will be paid back & surrender fees will be taken . Beware , if the surrender value is more than the money or premium you have paid in , there may be a taxable event you will have to deal with .
Answers above are correct , but thought you might like to know that 1 . The column that is usually titled `` Account Value '' is the cash value that is usually used by the carrier to determine the amount of loanable money the policyowner may borrow . 2 . When the cash value in the `` surrender value '' column equals the `` Account Value '' , it indicates that the surrender period or charges are no longer part of the cash value equation . However , if a loan is still outstanding , the surrender charge period could be over , but the loan would be reflected in a surrender charge lower than the account value .
The cash value of your life insurance policy is actually a reserve build up inside the policy . Most permanent life insurance plans accumulate cash reserves that can be borrowed by the policy owner . Cash value policies also have surrender values and maturity or endowment values . If you decide to surrender your policy the carrier will send you a check representing the accumulated cash value of your policy and , in some cases , a termination dividend . If you keep the policy long enough until it endows , usually at age 100 , the policy is surrendered by the carrier and a check for the maturity value of the policy .
The Cash Surrender Value is the value of the policy if you surrendered the policy . This is different than the face amount . You can find a table of Guaranteed Surrender Values inside your policy . A Whole Life Policy will have several provisions designed to give you options should your economic situation change . You may borrow off the Cash Value if you need to . You can use the Cash Value to provide a reduced paid up insurance policy . You can allow the policy to pay for extended term insurance , which keeps the policy going until the cash value is used up . This is a big advantage in my opinion over other life insurance policies .
Yes as long as there is loan value in the policy . A life insurance cash value is divided into two parts , the Surrender Value and the Loan value . The Surrender Value is the money you would receive if you cash in or surrender your policy . The insurance is no longer in force . The Loan value is the amount of money you cn loan on the policy . The insurance remains in force and if death occurs the loan amount is subtracted from the death benefit . The loan amount is sometimes different from the surrender amount due to administration charges that may be built into the policy . You can not borrow the full face amount of the policy .
For permanent life insurance , the policy owner has the right to borrow from the cash value subject to the terms in the contract . So , the owner can borrow life insurance cash values , even prior to age 59-1/2 , without a tax penalty as it is not a distribution . Loans will reduce the policys death benefit and cash value available for use . But use care here since if the policy lapses or is surrendered in full while there is an outstanding loan the amount of the outstanding loan is taxable to the extent that the policy 's gross cash value exceeds the policy owner 's basis -LRB- sum of premiums paid -RRB- in the contract . Policies that have a cash surrender value and have been in force for awhile have a maximum loanable value of close to the cash surrender value . Your annual statement may also have the value for loan purposes . Policies vary widely and there are many factors to consider . The best way to get a current value is to contact your life insurance professional or the insurance company directly .
Life insurance surrender value is the amount paid to the policyholder if they decide to terminate the policy before the death of the insured person , or before the policy matures . Only cash value life insurance policies , such as Whole Life or Index Universal Life , will have a surrender value . The surrender value is the cash value of the policy , minus expenses and fees .
The cash surrender value of a life insurance policy is the value you would receive before any taxes if you cashed in or surrendered the policy . Typically cash surrender value is generated in whole life and universal life policies . A build up of a cash reserve is necessary for level premium insurance to work . In Canada , you can attract taxation if 1 . You surrender a policy and the cash level exceeds the adjusted cost base of the policy , 2 . Borrow and the amount borrowed exceeds the adjustment cost base of the policy 3 . Transfer ownership -LRB- in most cases -RRB- Alternatively , if you wanted to access the cash value you could borrow for a bank using the policy as collateral . I suggest you contact a local insurance broker for assistance . If you have further questions , or feel that I could be of assistance , please do not hesitate to contact me . If you would like to work with a local life insurance broker , you could start with a Google search . For example , if you search for : life insurance broker Halifax or life insurance agent Halifax , my name , along with several others , will come up . You can use the same method to find a life insurance broker in your community .
Term life insurance is not designed to have a cash surrender value , however you may find a cash surrender value quoted on some term life insurance policies . This cash value is generally a return of unearned premium . Premiums on a life insurance contract can only be booked as as earned by the insurance company on a monthly basis , so if you pay your premiums for a period less frequently than this -LRB- e.g. annually -RRB- the insurer will refund the unearned premium if you surrender the policy . Outside of this , no term life insurance will not have a cash surrender value .
end question
start question
disability-insurance
Which Company Has The Best Disability Insurance ?
When reviewing your disability insurance options , you should be sure to understand the differences between company contracts . With disability insurance , the key to the contract is the definition of disability and definition and requirements of the policy benefits . All disability contracts are NOT created equal . When you 're buying a disability policy , the MOST important factor in the policy structure is theDEFINITION OF DISABILITY.Each policy will use 1 of the 3 definitions : 1 -RRB- True Own Occupation - this says you are considered totally disabled if , solely due to injury or sickness , you are not able to perform the material and substantial duties of your occupation , even if you are at work in another occupation . In short , this is the most favorable definition you can have . Guardian offers this definition and is our group 's top disability company to write business with . 2 -RRB- Modified Own Occupation - this says that you are considered totally disabled if , solely due to injury or sickness , you are not able to perform the material and substantial duties of your occupation . This one is commonly seen in many individual disability insurance policies . 3 -RRB- Gainful Occupation - this says if you are unable to perform the duties of your occupation or any occupation for which you are qualified for by education , training , or experience due to sickness or injury . In short , this is the least favorable definition . This one is commonly seen in group disability insurance policies through an employer and property and casualty insurers that offer disability coverage . Disability insurance depends on a number of factors . The cost -LRB- your premium -RRB- is based on a number of factors - the most important being your medical history , your job , and your income - and the policies are very customizable . There are many moving parts to disability insurance and is not something I would suggest trying to buy on your own - this is a type of coverage you should consult with an experienced independent disability insurance broker about . I hope the information is helpful - please feel free to contact me for help with your coverage and if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
What is a good company for one person 's disability insurance , may not be a good company for another person 's disability insurance . For persons with certain health conditions , there are limited plans that are offered by a limited number of companies . There are also companies that specialize in disability insurance for physicians , for business owners , and for high risk workers . There is no one company that has the best disability insurance for everyone .
If you think you might qualify for Medicare due to a disability , you should first file for disability benefits through the Social Security Administration . If approved , you may be able to get Medicare prior to age 65 due to a disability . In order to qualify for Medicare due to a disability , you must meet the criteria defined by the Social Security Administration : `` Social Security pays only for total disability . No benefits are payable for partial disability or for short-term disability . `` Disability '' under Social Security is based on your inability to work . We consider you disabled under Social Security rules if : You can not do work that you did before ; We decide that you can not adjust to other work because of your medical condition -LRB- s -RRB- ; and Your disability has lasted or is expected to last for at least one year or to result in death '' . You can apply for benefits through Medicare because of a disability online at : WEBSITELINK if you are tech savvy . If you choose not to apply online , you can apply at any local Social Security Administration office by phone or in person and you can call ahead to make an appointment by calling 1-800-772-1213 . If you are deaf or hearing impaired , call the SSA 's toll-free TTY number , 1-800-325-0778 . Their representatives are available from 7AM to 7PM , Monday through Friday . It is important to note that this definition of disability `` is different than other programs '' and `` is a strict definition of disability '' according to the Social Security Administration . There are many , more comprehensive disability policies available which allow benefits to be paid for a partial disability , for example , or pay benefits to help with various expenses such as paying your mortgage in the event that you suffer a disability . In addition , these policies can be purchased for key people in a business such as a business partner or profitable executive . For questions regarding which disability policy may be best for you or how much coverage you may need , it is best to speak with an Insurance Professional . They are highly trained in the business of Insurance , and will complete a full analysis of your needs and make recommendations based on what 's in your best interest . An Insurance Professional is a great resource for any other programs and products that may be of benefit to you including state and federal resources that you may qualify for based on your unique situation such as applying for Disability through the Social Security Administration . There is a reason they are so highly trained and regulated ! Resources : www.ssa.gov
The purpose of disability insurance is to provide income if you are unable to continue your work for an extended period of time due to an illness or and injury . In disability insurance , there are 3 types of definitions that a policy can use - the definition of disability in the policy is the MOST CRITICAL item to look at in your coverage . As to which policy features which definition , you need to look at which carrier you 're using and what definition options their policies offer . The 3 definitions of disability that a policy can use are true own occupation , modified own occupation , and gainful occupation . True Own Occupation -LRB- commonly referred to as `` own-occ '' -RRB- is the most favorable definition you can have on your policy . This definition says that you are considered totally disabled if , solely due to injury or sickness , you are not able to perform the material and substantial duties of your occupation , even if you are at work in another occupation . Modified Own Occupation has become the most common definition that most disability policies offer today . The first part of the modified definition is similar to the True Own Occupation definition , however , the second part of the modified definition is where the major change comes into play . The definition says that you are considered totally disabled if , solely due to injury or sickness , you are not able to perform the material and substantial duties of your occupation , and are NOT engaged in any other occupation . Gainful Occupation is a definition that is more commonly seen in group disability plans or plans offered by property and casualty companies that offer disability coverage . This definition provides the least coverage out of every disability plan . If you have a disability plan with this definition , you may want to look at securing coverage with a modified or true own occupation definition - or at the very least supplement the coverage . Many people who are looking for the cheapest disability plan will often end up with this definition on their policy Disability insurance is a very complex type of insurance with many moving parts and quotes depend on a variety of factors . You can not simply shop for a disability policy as you would for a term life insurance policy . For this type of coverage , you want to work with agents that have in-depth knowledge of products , how disability insurance works , and experience with these programs to help you through the process from start to finish . Please let me know if you have any other questions . Thanks !
There is no one disability insurance company that is best for everyone . If you have a health condition , you may need to go with a company that carries graded disability insurance policies . If you are self employed , work part time , labor in a certain profession or trade , or have group coverage , the company that is best for you may be entirely different from the company that is best for someone else . To find which Disability Insurance companies have the best rating , you can look at their AM Best and other scores . You can also review the `` About Us '' tab on their websites to read about their history and strength .
The insurance company that offers the best disability plan is the company you purchase the policy from with the best coverage at the best price . There are too many factors that are in play when buying a disability insurance policy to state if one company is the best . There are several companies that do an outstanding job with disability coverage . I recommend using an independent broker to professionally shop for the best product at the best price for your unique situation .
Either you are referring to the best disability insurance company or the best defensive planning techniques using disability insurance . There are several excellent disability companies in the disability market place . One of the best is The Standard . The best defensive planning techniques using disability insurance is to determine if you can expense the premium as a business deduction and apply for 80 % of your compensation . While it is true that any benefits received will be subject to ordinary income tax , a deduction today is worth the risk of taxable event in the future . Nondeductible disability protects up to 60 % of your compensation with tax free distribution of benefits . If youre in a high tax bracket , the spread in benefits -LRB- 80 % versus 60 % -RRB- and the savings in the annual deduction are incentives to expense the premium if you have a legitimate business . Keep in mind that you can also buy disability insurance to cover your qualified plan contributions as well .
What is the BEST life insurance company to work for is a really good question for a person looking to get into the business of life insurance . And Paul 's answer above here is an excellent answer ! I took it to be an opinion type question so I 'll give you my opinion as my answer . -LRB- In fact I really wanted to see how others answered this for my own curiosity ! -RRB- I have now worked for three different companies , but I really believe it depends more on the particular Agency you are associated with as to how much satisfaction and happiness you will derive . My set of values - which I believe most insurance agents share with regard to the business - makes me want to be sure that I 'm guiding my clients to the best possible product and company . What is best for the client will depend on the specific needs of the client . In my opinion the best product in the business of life insurance is Participating Whole Life , so I want to be working with the company that has the best value in participating whole life . As a new agent you will want to get the best training . Again I believe the Agency makes the most difference . Both the Guardian and NY Life have intensive training programs . Quite different from each other , but both good . MassMutual has the highest dividend interest of all the mutual companies and in my experience really lives by their motto , `` What 's Best for the Client '' . To that end they utilize a brokerage agency that allows their agents to shop some 50 other providers for products such as term policies that they do n't offer and to find the best deal for the client . They also have different contracts that an agent may choose from with which to associate themselves .
Who has the cheapest life insurance or rather who has the best rates for life insurance ? The company that has the best rates for insurance at a particular age and for a specified amount varies . No one company has all the best rates . Perhaps the best way to answer this is to change the question to : How do I find the best rates for term insurance ? You could start with an online quoting service to give you a point of reference . Be sure and compare renewal rates along with the initial premium . There are more factors to consider than simply price . Which is why you would best be served by working with an independent insurance broker who can access several companies to get you the right plan at the right price . If you have further questions , or feel that I could be of assistance , please do not hesitate to contact me . If you would like to work with a local life insurance broker , you could start with a Google search . For example , if you search for : life insurance broker Halifax or life insurance agent Halifax , my name , along with several others , will come up . You can use the same method to find a life insurance broker in your community .
Yes , disability insurance is really paycheck insurance and protects your income stream in the event an accident or illness prevents you from working . There are two type of disability insurance ; Short Term & Long Term disability . Short term plans usually cover periods of 13 or 26 weeks . Long Term plans , as their name implies , run for longer terms that can go on for years depending upon the policy . It is estimated that a 20 year old has a 25 % chance of being disabled for some period of time before they reach retirement age . Currently 12 % of the U.S. population is disabled with only 5 % of those disabilities being work related . So , a health problem or off the job accident is the most likely cause of someone becoming disabled . A recent report shows the average Social Security Disability payment is $ 1065 per month and qualifying for Social Security disability is famous for being difficult and time consuming with waits of 2 years for approval not being uncommon and as of 2009 , only 30 % of Social Security disability claims were approved . Relying on Social Security alone to preserve your lifestyle in the event of a disability is unwise . The majority of persons who experience a disabling event can return to work within about 90-days . But , for persons who experience a disability exceeding 90-days the average length of these types of disabling events is 3.2 years ! Ideally , a person will have both short term and long term disability insurance protection . Short term disability insurance will be less expensive and if your budget does n't allow for both coverages I would suggest starting out with short term coverage for the longest coverage period possible . If you are a female I would also recommend that you verify how a prospective short term disability policy treats maternity . Some policies treat maternity as a disabling event while others do not . This can be an important difference for a woman in her child bearing years .
An excellent question and one to which the answer will vary upon the purpose of the disability insurance policy for which the sole proprietor purchased the coverage . Most people only think about disability insurance for purposes of replacing their personal income during a period of disability . However , for business owners there is often the additional need to protect themselves in regard to the fixed expenses of their business that will continue regardless of whether or not the sole proprietor can work and generate income . The rent/lease for office space , utilities and other such business expenses are examples . If the disability insurance policy is taken out specifically to reimburse a sole proprietor for overhead expenses incurred during a period of disability then the cost of the disability policy is considered an ordinary and necessary business expense and would qualify as a deductible business expense . To qualify the policy must state specifically that the policy proceeds are to be used to cover business expenses during the period of disability . This is separate and distinct from a disability insurance policy a sole proprietor might want to take out to replace their income . Deducting this type of disability policy as a business expense is not a good idea as I do n't believe it meets the IRS criteria and if you did deduct such a disability policy as a business expenses it is highly likely that in the event of a disability claim the policyholder would have to pay income taxes on their disability insurance payments and thus reduce the net income amount the sole proprietor would receive during their disability period .
I would say yes . Your ability to earn income is likely your biggest asset , so what would you do if you lost that ability ? Some important things think about when trying to figure out if disability insurance is right for you is : 1 -RRB- If you became disabled , could you continue to pay your bills -LRB- mortgage payments , car payments , credit card payments , etc. -RRB- ? 2 -RRB- How long would your savings last ? 3 -RRB- Would you still be able to retire when you planned or send your children to college ? 4 -RRB- What happens to your bonus compensation and retirement contributions ? Could you keep paying the overhead expenses if you own a business ? Most disabilities are not work related and therefore not covered by workers compensation and it can be very difficult to qualify for social security disability as many disability claims are denied - even if you are approved for Social Security , the payments will probably be significantly less than you earn . Disability insurance can protect you from losing your income and is one of the most important types of insurance you can buy , especially for business owners , key employees , physicians , attorneys , and anyone who has family that depends on their ability to provide income . A big advantage with disability insurance is that when you have a qualifying claim that triggers disability payments , the monies paid to you are paid as tax-free income -LRB- as long as you paid the prmeiums with your after tax dollars - most people do -RRB- . Please note , when you 're looking to purchase disability insurance , work with an experienced , independent disability insurance agent who can work with you on a personal level to help you determine what program is suitable to your needs and budget -LRB- disability insurance policies are very customizable -RRB- . Make sure you pay attention to the language in the policy - most importantly the definition of disability . The definition of disability is the most important aspect of your disability insurance policy and you want to secure the best definition you can -LRB- `` true own occupation '' is very much regarded as the best definition you can have -RRB- . I hope the information is helpful - please feel free to contact me for assistance with your disability insurance needs , including quotes and program comparisons , and if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
It is hard to say who has the best long term care insurance because each company has its own special features . What may be best for one person may not be best for another . In reality , less companies are carrying long term care insurance than in the past , and it is not hard to compare the features of 3 to 5 companies to see which has the best policy for you .
Who the best Annuity Company is depends on a few different things . Mostly the current annuity market and who currently has the most competitive rates . It also depends on your personal situation and needs and which company offers a product that fits those needs best . In other words , there is no best annuity company , it just depends . But it is important to use a company that has good financial ratings , and `` A '' or better is usually considered a good rating . So whichever well rated company offers the most competitive product that fits your needs , is the best company .
When this question is asked I am not sure if you mean the best insurance company with coverage 's and claims or the who has the best rates . Let 's address rates first : There is no company who has the best rates as there are many varying factors that can make one insurance company rise to the top over another as it pertains to premium . In other words who has the best rate for me may not be the best for you , and we could live right next door to each other . Now lets move on to the more important issue and that is coverage 's : What you have to understand is most insurance companies have varying options/packages of coverage 's available to purchase . In most cases agents tend to offer the cheapest package which does not maximize coverage 's that are potentially available to the client . I suggest when shopping for insurance that you truly consult with your agent about the different options available by an insurance company so you can make an educated decision on the coverage you wish to purchase and how much of the risk you yourself wish to assume . As an independent agent I am able to offer quotes and coverage 's from multiple companies to help my clients make the most informed decision about their most important asset , and that is their home . Now the next subject would be claims : Which insurance company continues to rise to the top in claims handling . There are many independent websites which you do a quick search on and find ratings on how well claims are handled and their overall customer satisfaction and loyalty . There are many companies that are great in the claims area that I bet you have never even heard of . You will also find negatives on every insurance company out there without exception . Most of the negatives are due to coverage 's not being in place that the client thought they had . Or in other words . A lack of understanding their policy . This goes back to my suggestion on being educated on the coverage 's available to you . There are many independent online reviews available to you -LRB- some good , some not so good -RRB- that will give you ratings on how well the claims experience is for clients and how insurance companies rank in the claims department . But there is one thing that I believe is very critical to the claims process and that is your agent . An absentee agent can make the process very frustrating if you are having some communication difficulty with the insurance company . An agent that is actually working for you can help make any unfortunate claims experience must less painful then it needs to be . So never take the agent out of the equation when shopping for homeowners insurance . So with all that being said , my parting advice is do your research , consult and ask lots of questions from your agent . Do n't be shy are think it 's a dumb question because it 's not . After all , were talking about your home .
Determining whether a disability will qualify you for a claim depends upon the policy 's `` definition of disability '' . It 's not something where one type of disability is covered and another may not be just because it 's a different kind . It 's about whether your specific disability is covered under policy 's definition of disability . The definition of disability is the most important factor under any disability insurance policy . A disability insurance policy will have 1 of 3 definition options -LRB- varies by carrier - some may only offer one definition , others may offer more than one as it would then depend upon type of disability policy being set up -LRB- e.g. long-term vs. short-term , group vs. individual , etc. -RRB- -RRB- - 1 -RRB- True Own Occupation , 2 -RRB- Modified Own Occupation , and 3 -RRB- Gainful Occupation . True Own Occupation is the most desirable definition you can have on a disability policy . This says that you are considered completely disabled if -LRB- due to injury or sickness -RRB- you are not able to perform the duties of your job , EVEN IF YOU ARE WORKING AT ANOTHER JOB -LRB- this last part is key ! -RRB- . Modified Own Occupation is the most common definition that policies offer in today 's marketplace . Under this definition , you are completely disabled if -LRB- due to injury or sickness -RRB- you are not able to perform the duties of your job , AND ARE NOT WORKING IN ANY OTHER JOB -LRB- again , this last part is key ! -RRB- . Gainful Occupation is typically seen in group disability policies and policies offered by property and casualty companies that offer disability policies . This definition is the most stringent saying that you ca n't work in your own occupation and unable to work in any gainful occupation for a period of time -LRB- e.g. 12 months , 24 months , etc. - can vary by company -RRB- . Also , whether you want to buy a short-term disability policy or a long-term disability policy is important too . You can have a combination of both . I would recommend reviewing your needs and goals with an independent agent who works with multiple carriers and can help determine the program structure that will best serve your needs because disability policies are very customizable as there are a number of additional options to choose from that affect the rates . It 's not a `` just pick and choose who has the lowest rates '' type of insurance - you really want to make sure you 've got the right coverage for what you 're trying to accomplish . I hope the information is helpful - please feel free to contact me for help with your coverage and if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
Yes , AFLAC does have disability insurance in their portfolio of supplementary insurance products . Most commonly people are offered AFLAC coverage through their place of employment though consumers can go directly to AFLAC for coverage . There are two types of disability insurance ; Short Term and Long Term Disability . The general industry standard is that a short term disability plan pays benefits for up to 6-months and long term policies cover much longer periods of disability . AFLAC takes more of a hybrid approach in their disability product that gives an individual options that can extend beyond the time period normally associated with short term disability policies but at the same time not going as far as most long term disability policies will cover . Disability insurance can be very important as we have about a 1 out 3 chance of being disabled for some period during our working years . However , not all disability insurance policies are created equal or offer the same value propositions . The convenience of buying at the workplace and paying through payroll deduction can be very attractive , this is no guarantee though that it is really the best fit for your individual needs . If you are serious about insuring your paycheck you would be well served to explore both AFLAC and other options you can obtain in the marketplace . Also , just because your employer allows an AFLAC agent to come into your workplace and sell you insurance does n't mean that your employer has gone through any process of determining if these products are a good value for you . The reason is that you are paying for it with your money so it 's a `` let the buyer beware '' situation and is totally different than the process your employer goes through when looking for group health insurance for their employees . In that case the employer is financially involved and they go through an extensive shopping and comparison process before deciding on the best health insurance option to offer their employees . This is not to say that AFLAC does not have good products or that they have n't helped many customers over the years - they have . But , at the same time , massive advertising and branding campaigns combined with very aggressive sales tactics are no guarantee of being the best value .
There 's many companies that offer disability insurance such as Guardian , MetLife , Assurity , Standard , Principal , just to name a few . The DEFINITION OF DISABILITY is the single most important factor when determining which disability insurance policy to apply for . Each policy will use 1 of the 3 definitions : 1 -RRB- True Own Occupation - this says you are considered totally disabled if , solely due to injury or sickness , you are not able to perform the material and substantial duties of your occupation , even if you are at work in another occupation . In short , this is the most favorable definition you can have . 2 -RRB- Modified Own Occupation - this says that you are considered totally disabled if , solely due to injury or sickness , you are not able to perform the material and substantial duties of your occupation . This one is commonly seen in many individual disability insurance policies . 3 -RRB- Gainful Occupation - this says if you are unable to perform the duties of your occupation or any occupation for which you are qualified for by education , training , or experience due to sickness or injury . In short , this is the least favorable definition . This one is commonly seen in group disability insurance policies through an employer and property and casualty insurers that offer disability coverage . If you have disability insurance with the gainful occupation definition , I would suggest replacing it immediately or at the very least supplement it with a policy that features a stronger definition -LRB- I would highly recommend one with the true own occupation definition -RRB- . If you 're going to buy/have disability insurance , it 's not something you want to be cheap about . There are many moving parts to disability insurance and is not something I would suggest trying to buy on your own - this is a type of coverage you should consult with an experienced independent disability insurance broker about . Factors such as your occupation class , your income level , the state you live in , your medical history , your age , your desired benefit amount and benefit period , if you want cost of living adjustment riders , and other factors all impact your policy 's structure and premiums . In short , they 're very customizable , I hope the information is helpful - please feel free to contact me for help and if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
There are many excellent life insurance companies to choose from and the `` best '' is very subjective . One way to rate companies is by the financial ratings from AM Best or a similar rating company . I personally only use A rated companies or better , so my clients can feel confident that the life insurance company will be around 20 - 30 years or longer when the policy is needed . Many life insurance companies have been around over 100 years which is another testament to a stable company . A company may be the best for you because they offer a particular product with a unique rider that you want . Finally , a company that provides a better health rating , and therefore lower premium for your situation , may turn out to be the best for you . All of the above are reasons to work with a knowledgeable advisor to help you sort through the options and find the best company for your particular situation .
Which life insurance company is the best ? I think that depends on a few factors . Chief among them are the risk profile you present , and the type of product you want to purchase . At the end of the day , it becomes a question of which will give you the best underwriting . Your risk profile is characterized by the underwriting challenges you pose . I am sure you know that life insurance underwriting covers many factors . These include gender ; nicotine use ; current health ; medical history ; family medical history ; occupation ; avocation ; foreign travel history and plans ; lifestyle with regards to alcohol and drug use ; financial situation ; and criminal , financial , and motor vehicle record . Much to look at . And you know what ? In some way , shape , or form , all these factors can have an impact on your mortality . For most people , one or more of these factors are more operative than the others . Therefore you need to look for a company who will be most competitive in underwriting that particular risk factor . Some companies will be more competitive for diabetics . Some companies will be more competitive for people with a cancer history . Some companies will be more competitive for mountain climbers . Some companies will be more competitive for scuba divers . Some companies will be more competitive for people with a bankruptcy on their record . And on and on and on . It is the job of your broker to direct you to the right company . Also remember that companies tend to specialize in the products they manufacture . Some lean towards cheap term insurance . Others lean towards whole life insurance . Some lean towards guaranteed universal life insurance , while others lean towards interest-based universal life insurance . Once your broker prequalifies you and identifies the company that will give you the lowest cost for your coverage , you can then determine which product they make available that would make the most sense , given the life insurance strategy you want to employ . Important note : given that not every company makes available every type of product , you might have to re-think your choice of product once you find out which company will give you the best underwriting . But that is OK at least you will be getting the most value for your dollar .
end question
start question
life-insurance
Where Is Metropolitan Life Insurance Company Incorporated ?
MetLife is domiciled in New York . They are the largest life insurance company in the US and were , many decades ago , the largest company in the world . MetLife Inc. the ultimate parent of many insurance companies associated with it . The headquarters is in New York City . They are a public company now having demutualized in 2000 .
Direct auto insurance is not a type of auto insurance , but a way to buy or method of selling auto insurance . Some auto insurance companies , like USAA & Amica , do not have insurance agents representing them , and sell auto insurance -LRB- and other types of insurance -RRB- direct to the public only . Auto insurance companies selling direct to the public staff call centers with licensed insurance representatives employed by the company , to sell and service the company 's insurance products . Although I think most people benefit from receiving the personal service of an agent , accountable to the customer for providing customer service , advice , and assistance , both USAA & Amica have excellent reputations for claims & customer service . Companies like GEICO & Progressive are known for selling direct to the public , though GEICO has agents available in many large metropolitan areas , and Progressive also sells through independent insurance agents , though the products and rates will be different than buying direct . When you call a company selling direct for an auto insurance quote , you speak with a company employee licensed to sell insurance , working from a call center , most likely out-of state -LRB- but not outside of the USA -RRB- . If you buy the auto insurance policy , there is no one person at the company responsible for your account , as there would be , if you purchased a policy through an agent . So , a company employee sells you the auto insurance policy , but if you call back with a question , or to make a policy change liking adding or removing a car , whichever employee answering the phone will help you , much like you receive help when you call your cable TV company . GEICO & Progressive seem to compete on price more than other companies , but buying direct does not always mean a better price . Selling direct mean no agent commissions to pay , but selling direct has other costs , like more marketing costs for TV & media ads , employee salaries and benefits . A wise auto insurance shopper decides on the coverage they need , then check the rates of all the major auto insurance companies in their state , regardless of whether the company sells direct , through their own local agents , or through independent insurance agents .
The largest life insurance company in the United States -LRB- by assets -RRB- is presently the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company -LRB- aka MetLife -RRB- . MetLife is not the world 's largest life Insurer . The largest life insurer in the world -LRB- again by assets -RRB- is the Japan Post Insurance Company .
HMO 's cover the same medical services that traditional major medical insurance plans , either group or individual cover . The essential difference is in the provider network used to deliver these benefits and how the subscriber 's access to their benefits is guided by this approach . HMO stands for Health Maintenance Organization and while there are variations on the theme , in its purest form an HMO has an exclusive network of contracted providers that must be used by subscribers to the HMO in order to receive covered services . In this context an HMO would not pay for services a member receives from a non-HMO provider . Also , HMO 's often use a `` gatekeeper '' approach that requires a referral from a Primary Care Physician before the member can receive care from a specialist or other HMO provider for non-emergency services . Theoretically the HMO concept assures that your Primary Care Physician is overseeing the member 's complete range of health care services and treatment , makes sure that care is being delivered in the most appropriate and cost effective setting and manner , and maximizes the overall efficiency of the delivery of health care to its members . In practical terms the HMO concept has generally fared best in higher population density areas that have an extensive and competitive medical infrastructure in place . One of the main reasons for this is that the HMO providers can actually be employees of the HMO or have negotiated deep discounts for their services with the HMO in exchange for a high volume of patient traffic . Accomplishing this in a metropolitan area like Los Angeles is far easier than in a rural area where there may be not be many competing providers and hospitals and these providersare already serving virtually all of the area 's population . Also , the more restrictive and controlling nature of the HMO concept has not always been welcomed by the American consumer who has been accustomed to making their own choices when it comes to selecting their doctors , hospitals and pharmacies and having a high degree of freedom in when and where they access the health care system . While HMOs can deliver excellent benefits and services at attractive rates , the potential consumer should also consider the trade offs involved in achieving these ends . If the consumer finds the HMO network to be sufficient for their perceived needs and understands therules of being an HMO member it can be a very positive environment in which to receive one 's health care . Going into an HMO without understanding and accepting these factors can lead to a very unsatisfactory and perhaps costly experience .
MetLife is another name for Metropolitan Life Insurance Company . MetLife , Inc is the holding company for Metropolitan Life Insurance Company . The company is one of the largest providers of life insurance in the world . To compare MetLife quotes with other life insurance companies , search for an instant quote on the internet , or call an insurance agency that carries multiple companies .
In Canada a `` Sole Proprietor '' often refers to a business owner who is not incorporated . If that is the case then there is no `` going concern '' business to sell only the assets of the business -LRB- Loss of good will . -RRB- If the business is incorporated , the shareholder can sell the company and benefit from the capital gains exemption . Whether or not a sole proprietor should incorporate is something that should be discussed with his or her professional advisors . Business owners face additional challenges when planning for retirement because often the business is not only their source of revenue it is their greatest asset . A Retirement Planning Checklist and additional information on retirement and business succession planning can be found at www.jpw.ca . If you have further questions , or feel that I could be of assistance , please do not hesitate to contact me .
Theres some debate here , but the historical records seem to agree on Presbyterian Life , a fund for ministers , was the first stock company . The first mutual company in the U.S. is the venerable New England , now part of the mighty Metropolitan . Many companies formed around religious groups or trade consortiums .
A good estimate can be made by a company 's premium revenue and market share of the industry . In that sense , American General would be the largest insurance company in the United States . In second would be Metropolitan Life -LRB- a.k.a. MetLife -RRB- , third - Hartford , fourth - Northwestern Mutual , and fifth - Prudential .
When listing the largest lifeinsurance companies in the United States there are different ways to categorize them . You can list by annual revenue , total assets , number of employees , etc. . I believe you will find the largest in most categories is Metropolitan Life Insurance Co. better known as Metlife out of New York . In a fairly close second would be Prudential .
To be licensed in Tennessee requires 32 hours of classroom study or an online equivalent . There are several companies to choose from . You will need to be finger printed and pass a background check free of felonies , theft and violence . Then you must pass a written exam at a designated testing facility located in all of the metropolitan areas of the state . I recommend taking your health exam at the same time in order to cross license in other states . Good luck !
MetLife is the biggest life insurance company in the United States and Mexico . Metropolitan Life -LRB- MetLife -RRB- is the fourth largest insurer for life insurance in the world . Prudential Financial is just under Metropolitan Life in size in both the United States and the world markets for total company assets .
The Met is the largest insurance company by total assets . Here are the companies that comprise the Met . American Life Insurance Company , MetLife Alico Life Insurance KK -LRB- MetLife Alico Japan -RRB- , First MetLife Investors Insurance Company , General American Life Insurance Company , MetLife Insurance Company of Connecticut , MetLife Investors Insurance Company , MetLife Investors USA Insurance Company , Metropolitan Life Insurance Company and the New England Life Insurance Company . Met has been in business for 140 years .
Life insurance is a pooled risk plan . That means that a large number of people who can not afford the loss of the death of a person contribute to a pool that reimburses when someone in the pool dies . These pools exist in some fraternal policies . These pools become more sophisticated when they become incorporated and become legal reserve life insurance companies . These companies are regulated by the state insurance commissioner in the state where they are domiciled and the state insurance commissioner in the state where they are admitted . The purpose of this regulation is to assure the public that the admitted life insurance companies doing business in your state have adequate reserves to meet all of the promises that they have made . The insurance company looks to actuarial science . Actuaries pour through death records for hundreds of years and millions of lives . The basic result is the Commissioners Standard Ordinary -LRB- CSO -RRB- tables . These take this huge amount of data and determine in a given year the average number of people -LRB- male , female -RRB- who will die in a given year . Insurance companies compare the CSO data with internal data and from that information develop their own probabilities . The actuaries then determine the amount of money that the company must collect in order to pay death claims at a given age for a given sex . This becomes the standard premium for that age -LRB- plus the cost of administration and acquiring the business and reduced by anticipated earnings on the reserves of the company . -RRB- Because companies have access to more precise information they can carve out the differences for those who smoke or use tobacco products . This becomes the first differentiation in life insurance premiums . The companies also have data derived from smaller numbers that indicate the effect of certain diseases , occupations and habits of the population . This information is passed to the underwriters who determine if the proposed insured meets the definition of a standard risk , and if they do not , why not and to what degree do they vary from the standard risk . The underwriter can lower the premium from the standard premium if the individual falls in a narrow band of height and weight . Often to receive this lower premium the underwriters will require blood and urine analysis to determine the overall health of the individual . Others are offered an increased premium if they have a condition that has proven to reduce life expectancy , or engage in an occupation that is considered hazardous . When the underwriter completes underwriting the applicant is offered a policy . Basically it says that the company will provide so much coverage for such a period of time for a certain amount . The applicant becomes a policyholder when he or she makes the initial payment . There are many other issues involved in determining the premium for a policy but the most important is how long the coverage is to last and at what amount of coverage . At that point the issue is largely mathematics and involves the company being able to meet its obligations , its promises .
Video Transcript : How much is $ 1 million life insurance policy ? Are we using term life insurance or are we using permanent life insurance ? That 's going to dictate how long the coverage is going to need . Am I a male or a female ? Am I a smoker or a nonsmoker ? What 's my medical history like ? What is the para-med exam result that I have to take for the application ? I need to incorporate all those issues into what the price tag 's going to be for $ 1 million coverage , as well as , think about this ; you 're going to have to also add on , do you have a hazardous vocation ? That could be another additional price tag on top of your premium . If you have recreational issues , like I like to scuba dive or mountain climb , those also are incorporated into your price tag . If you 're looking for $ 1 million of coverage and you can answer all of those questions , you can come up with whose got the most competitive price tag throughout the life insurance carrier market .
The best homeowners company is the one that stands behind you when you suffer a loss . The best policy is one that meets all or most of your obligations during a claim . Every company licensed to do business in a state is supervised by the state insurance commissioner . Additionally their ability pay claims is supervised by the commissioner in the state where they are incorporated . Insurance companies set their rates and their rates are approved by the state commissioner . These vary by company on the same piece of property . The savings you make by choosing the cheapest policy could be erased in a minute if you have a loss that is not covered . You could be bankrupted .
SAGA Home Insurance is a foreign company doing business in the U. S. that supposedly caters to the over 50 market . The first question I would have is the cultural differences that could be built into the policy that you would not know about until you had a claim . The marketing `` over 50 '' concept is an obvious push to appeal to the more established individual that has assets and therefore insuring a more expensive home . Companies like CHUBB , Hartford , and certainly State Farm has not failed to recognize that market . A foreign company would really have to compete for my business and they would have to convince me that there policies incorporate the values we expect in the U. S. . Am I saying that the policies are bad-no , not at all . I am saying you are going to do your due diligence if you decide to spend your money with a foreign company . What guarantees do you have that a policy dispute you may have can be successfully negotiated when you are dealing with a foreign company . Contrast that against your ability to appeal the decision of a U S Company direct to your DOI vs. having to hire an attorney .
Only if you and your significant other are legally married . So , if it is a male/female relationship you are inquiring about then things are pretty straightforward from the marriage standpoint . If it is a same sex relationship you are inquiring about then things get more complicated . Same sex marriage is an issue that is still being addressed on a state by state basis . If your home state does not recognize same sex marriage and your employer is domiciled -LRB- incorporated in , established in -RRB- in such a state then you ca n't get married in that state anyways and an out-of-state marriage in a state that does recognize same sex marriage is not recognized in your home state . There is a tremendous amount of litigation going on in the Federal courts over this issue which makes it hard to be totally definitive when addressing this question . To make things even more interesting , you might work at a branch location of a company domiciled in a state that recognizes same sex marriage while your state of residence still does n't . And your employer 's policy may be to accept same sex spouses as dependents under their group health plan . This can result in the situation where one same sex couple -LRB- you still have to be married but I 've got some neighbors that went out of state to get married in a jurisdiction that does allow for same sex marriage even though our home state currently does not -RRB- may be able to take advantage of their employer 's health coverage while a similar same sex couple across the street who work for employers headquartered in states that do n't recognize same sex marriage ca n't cover their same sex spouse as a dependent . It is an interesting time to be in the employee benefits business .
The largest life insurance company in the United States is Metropolitan Life Insurance Company , called MetLife for short . MetLife wrote nearly 10 % of the total life insurance business in the country in 2012 , which was more than 16 billion dollars in premium . MetLife is also one of the largest life insurance companies in the world .
The cost of life insurance is depend on whether you purchase term or permanent life insurance and a battery of variables like gender , age , smoking status , health history , current medical condition . It also incorporates your motor vehicle violations , your vocation or recreational to determine if theyre hazardous . A nonsmoking super preferred male with $ 100,000 of coverage on a ten year term life insurance policy may pay $ 10 - $ 12 if the company allows monthly payments at that level .
Life insurance underwriting is the art of collecting financial , medical and behavioral information and integrating a composite picture of the proposed insured . This big picture approach can sometimes create extra credits on the underwriters balance to offset potential debits or health items that may cause the premium price to increase based on the risk to the life insurance company . Financial justification must be established for the face amount of insurance amount youre applying for with documentation . Medical information is collected and includes your doctors file , prescription history and the results of a paramed exam . These items help develop the mortality risk to the company . Behavior like addictions , motor vehicle violations , dangerous recreational activity and vocational hazards are incorporated into the final decision .
end question
start question
annuities
What Is Fixed In A Fixed Annuity ?
The word fixed has to do with the rate of return . The insurance company exchanges a fixed amount of money , paid either in one payment or in periodic payments and agrees to make regular fixed payments for the lifetime of the annuitant starting at a specific date or a date to be selected later . In this case the insurance company assumes the entire risk for both earnings and principal
That is an excellent question ! Fixed annuities are the simplest of the three main types of annuities . They are generally the safest in terms of risk , because the fixed rate of return is clearly stated . A fixed annuity will have a guaranteed interest rate that is fixed for a period of years . The other annuities , indexed and variable , will have rates and returns that can change based upon the profit or loss in the marketplace . I hope that helps , thanks for asking !
Fixed annuities are similar to CDs in the sense that they pay guaranteed interest rates . The advantages are that fixed annuities typically pay interest rates considerably higher than bank CDs . Insurance companies also have tougher financial standards to meet for cash reserves than banks which can make them more secure in the eyes of a consumer . There are several different types of fixed annuities but they fall into two main categories immediate and deferred . Immediate annuities make a fixed payment determined by how much money you put into the annuity and your age . Deferred annuities accumulate interest and offer different payout strategies later in life . The longer you wait to initiate payout , the larger the payout each year . Many retirees are using deferred annuities as part of their retirement income strategy because it is guaranteed income for either a specific period or a lifetime stream of income . You can choose options like single life payout or joint life payout . If this sounds familiar , it is essentially like setting up your own personal retirement pension . The biggest concern from most folks heading into retirement is that they will run out of money before they die . Fixed annuities can help remove that concern as they can help avoid the ups and downs of a volatile stock market . Other advantages of a fixed annuity include a low investment limits . There are many companies that have minimums of just a few thousand dollars . The interest paid as your annuity grows in value is also tax deferred until you pull the money out . The biggest drawback of a fixed annuity is cash liquidity . Lets say you put in $ 100,000 and intend to begin taking lifetime income seven or ten years later but two years into that period , you changed your mind and want to withdraw your money . Just like with a bank CD , there will be a consequence for early withdrawal . This surrender charge can be significant . Whats the reason for the surrender charge ? The insurance company has taken your money along with thousands of other folks money and invested it in long term financial vehicles based on your initial commitment and now youre asking them to bust your money out because of your personal situation and that costs them money . The solution : Only put money in a fixed annuity that you are certain can be left alone to complete the strategy you set out on . Most fixed annuities do not have inflation adjustments . The spending power of a monthly payment over time will erode based on inflation and that needs to be taken into consideration . There are fixed annuities with inflation protection available at an additional cost . You can also use a laddered approach with multiple annuities to combat inflation concerns during retirement . If your own a single-life annuity and you begin receiving income and then die a year or two later , depending on the contract , payments could cease . The guaranteed payout in a situation like this varies significantly from product to product and this should be of primary concern when evaluating which annuity product or company best meets your individual needs . The best way to avoid this risk is to consider a joint-life annuity . Of course , there are many different types of fixed annuities and you need to consult with a qualified retirement income adviser in order to determine which type of fixed annuity fits your particular situation .
A Fixed Annuity is a general term for an Annuity with a fixed interest rate , as opposed to a variable rate dependent on the stock market . The most typically referred to annuity when someone says `` fixed annuity '' , is a Fixed Deferred Annuity . This gives a compounding interest rate for a specific period of time . Most Fixed Deferred Annuities are able to be annuitized after the first or second year . Annuitizing a Fixed Deferred Annuity means to set up a yearly stream of income based on your life expectancy . Another type of Fixed Annuity is a Fixed Immediate Annuity . Instead of the ability to defer Annuitization , the contract immediately starts to pay a lifetime income stream . There are also Fixed Period Certain Annuities which pay an income stream for a specific number of years . And Fixed indexed Annuities , which guarantee a minimum interest rate , while crediting a limited interest rate based on the gains of a market index .
Most IRA 's are fixed annuities but not all fixed annuities are IRA 's . All that this means is that a fixed annuity can be a fixed annuity . A fixed annuity as an IRA is not subject to the direct effect of market risks because the account assets are not held in separate accounts and then invested in marketable securities . Instead , an IRA is invested in high quality instruments by the carrier and the carrier assumes the risk to the IRA capital and to the rate of interest promised to you . The IRA pays interest at fixed rates . A variation of this arrangement is an IRA that is coupled with market investments that have more upside potential for gain without becoming variable products . These are called `` fixed index annuities '' -LRB- FIA -RRB- that are based upon one or another of the market indexes and one of several interest and gain crediting methods . The caveat is that the IRA is guaranteed by the underwriting company -LRB- usually insurance -RRB- and invested similarly to those of most IRA annuities . In FIA accounts , the client shares in the upside potential for gain with the underwriting company and has better upside chances to earn better than the minimum performance guarantees the carriers provides for their IRA with you . This enables you to have performance that more closely matches your interest rate performance to stock and bond market performance . All insurance underwriters of IRA annuities guarantee a fixed minimum rate of return . Performance above the minimum in a FIA is credited to you when market conditions permit and you share with the carrier in these additional returns . Regardless of performance , the minimum rate of return is still owed and paid and the insurance carrier bears this risk of performance . Variable annuities , on the other hand , have no guarantee of performance and may pay nothing at all . Of course , with a greater risk in a variable annuity , performance can be stronger too but the trade off is no gain at all for the possible upside potential . Hope this explanation helps you understand that a fixed annuity can work perfectly well for an IRA .
In general , there are two types of annuities : variable annuities and fixed annuities . Variable annuities are often described as mutual funds inside an insurance contract . Variable annuities have fees that are higher than fixed annuities , and while they are subject to market gains , they can also be subject to market losses . It is possible to lose principal in a variable annuity . Surrender charges apply and can be significant in the first few years . Insurance companies take your annuity money and make long-term commitments using that money and if you decide to pull your money out on an accelerated schedule other than that which was originally agreed upon , they can lose out on their long-term investment . Fixed annuities , which include indexed annuities , are not subject to market losses and most come with the commitment to `` never go down '' in value . Fixed annuities have penalties for early withdrawal and they are significant in the first few years . You are generally allowed an amount you can withdraw `` penalty free '' each year - around 10 % . Fixed annuities are not FDIC insured . They are based on the `` claims paying ability and financial strength of the issuing insurance company '' . Look at the history of insurance companies over the past 100 + years and you 'll probably favor what you see over the banking industry . While there are some `` annuity bashers '' out there , they generally have a product they are trying to sell that suits their agenda or wallet . Annuities should be considered a long-term product and if you purchase an annuity , you should only do so with money you are certain will not be needed over the life of that annuity . There are penalty free withdrawal provisions and you should be aware of what those are . Annuities have lots of advantages and certainly some disadvantages as well . As always , the suitability of a financial product is based on your specific situation and needs and a licensed , qualified financial professional should be sought out to help .
Fixed annuities can definitely be a great idea for seniors . The set payout creates a known , predictable income stream that helps supplement a senior 's other retirement income . They are low-risk and generate a guaranteed interest rate return . There are immediate and deferred fixed annuities and they are set up through insurance companies . If you 're already at the retirement age , you may want to consider an immediate annuity . If you 're in younger years , then a deferred annuity may be more preferable . An immediate fixed annuity makes fixed payments starting when the annuity is established that are determined by your age and the size of your annuity -LRB- how much money you put into it -RRB- . A deferred annuity accumulates over time . If you would like to look into fixed annuities in further detail and see what interest rates are available in today 's market from a number of different carriers , please send me an e-mail via the contact me button next to my name . I have an agent in my office that has a strong background in fixed annuities and can help get your program set up . I hope the information is helpful - please feel free to contact me with any other questions as well . Thanks very much .
Pros Immediate annuities are , in my opinion , the most useful of the suite . For Americans who will not be retiring with a meaningful stream of pension income , immediate annuities offer that potential . Because an immediate annuity is purposefully consuming both interest and principal to create an income stream , the individual distributions are likely to be higher than anyone could justify taking from a balanced portfolio of investments , where maintenance of the principal balance is often the goal . Fixed annuities allow an investor to lock in rates of return that are comparable to CDs , but likely for longer terms -LRB- whereas CDs are typically quoted in months , fixed annuities are quoted in years ranging from one to 10 . -RRB- The most common are three , five and seven year fixed annuities . If -LRB- read : when -RRB- interest rates rise from abnormally low rates to abnormally high rates , it could be a wise time to allocate some of one 's fixed income exposure to a fixed annuity . And unlike a CDthe interest from which is paid out and taxed annuallythe interest or gains earned in annuities are deferred until distributions are taken . Many annuities promise some level of principal protection . Even in certain variable products -LRB- invested in equities -RRB- , a portion of your principal or even future income may be guaranteed by the company . The advantages of equity indexed annuities are , frankly , hard to find amidst the overly-simplistic marketing pledges shrouding their overly-complex underlying construction . ... Whoever sells you the policy will likely be going on a nice vacation sooncommissions on these products range into double-digit percentages . Additionally , you could suspend disbelief and allow yourself to think you 're getting the upside of the market without any downside . Ignorance can be blissful , if only momentarily . Cons Unfortunately for each of the pros , there are pretty significant cons . At this time , prevailing interest rates -LRB- and correspondingly the rates used to calculate immediate annuity payouts -RRB- are so low that committing funds could expose you to a meaningful amount of inflation risk . So even if you 're predisposed to lock in a more secure income stream with an immediate annuity , consider waiting until rates normalize . The same could be said for most fixed annuities . The tax deferral of annuities is worth something , but there 's a priceor prices , reallyto be paid . All of your gains will be taxed at your ordinary income rate . Especially if you 're investing in a variable annuity with equity exposure , you 're trading the tax privilege of capital gains for a ratedeferred or notthat could be twice as much . Another negative tax implication is the loss of a `` step-up '' in cost basis to your heirs . Capital assets that were purchased at a low costlike stocks and real estate , for exampleare afforded a step-up in their cost basis upon your death . If you sold those assets during life , you 'd paid capital gains tax . If you gave them to your heirs while you were alive , your heirs would inherit your cost basis . But if you wait to pass them to heirs until after your death , they will receive a step-up in their basis to the cost of the holding on your date of death . Annuities with significant appreciation , however , receive no such benefit . In fact , not only will your heirs inherit your cost basis , they 'll be paying tax at their ordinary income rate and may be forced to distribute the policy and take that gain in short order , resulting in a tax time bomb for those you hope to bless with an inheritance . There are more pros and cons - please visit my website or call me to discuss your particular situation .
Fixed Index Annuities -LRB- FIA 's -RRB- are annuities that have the security of a guaranteed interest rate along with the potential to earn more based on the performance of a market index or indexes . Fixed Index Annuities are often interchanged with the term Equity Indexed Annuities , but FIA 's can be tied to indexes other than the stock market . The premium for a Fixed Index Annuity can go in as a simply payment or be paid over time . The potential for growth in an Indexed Annuity is greater than a Fixed Annuity due to the participation in the indexes . However , it maintains the security of the guaranteed interest rate of a Fixed Annuity .
An indexed annuity was initially a method to make the market participation of a variable annuity available to the fixed and guaranteed marketplace . The appropriate name for a `` index annuity '' is an Equity Indexed Annuities -LRB- EIA -RRB- . The idea of a variable indexed annuity is unusual but Allianz actually is offering a product with the name `` Index Advantage Variable Annuity '' . According to the Securities and Exchange Commission , there are three types of annuities . There are fixed , indexed or variable annuities . The vast bulk of indexed annuities are not registered with the SEC and are therefore considered `` fixed '' . Without more information to help you 'll have to accept that an indexed annuity is probably a fixed product but some carriers are creating variable indexed annuities .
What are the differences between fixed and variable annuities ? Well , the biggest difference would be the investment pool you work from . A fixed annuity investment choices are made by the insurance company and you receive a stated % return for that year . You do n't have to do anything . A variable annuity shifts the investment risk onto the individual and they , not the insurance company -LRB- to a degree -RRB- decide what the annuity will be invested in . The Risk shifts to the insured and while the possibility exists to outgain the fixed annuity , the possibility of loss , even loss of existing balance exists . A variable annuity REQUIRES attention to a much great degree than a fixed .
Indexed annuities are different from other fixed annuities because of the way it credits interest to your annuity 's value . Some fixed annuities only credit interest calculated at a rate set in the contract . Other fixed annuities also credit interest at rates set from time to time by the insurance company . Indexed Annuities credit interest using a formula based on changes in the index to which the fixed indexed annuity is linked . The formula decides how the additional interest , if any , is calculated and credited . How much additional interest you get and when you get it depends on the features of your particular contract ?
Lifetime annuities are annuities that pay the annuitants monthly payments for the rest of their lives . The annuity can be an immediate annuity , where a lump sum is used to purchase the annuity , and payments begin right away . Or they can be deferred annuities , where money is put into the annuity over a number of years before the annuity is annuitized . The annuity can be fixed , with guaranteed fixed payments . Or it can be variable , which may generate higher or lower payments than a fixed annuity . When the annuitant dies , the payments of a lifetime annuity end . If the annuity holder lives longer than expected , they can do very well with a lifetime annuity . If they live a shorter than expected , that is not favorable to the annuity holder . However , some contracts allow payment of an amount equal to the initial investment to the beneficiary .
Fixed annuities invest your premium into conservative , long term securities -LRB- usually bonds -RRB- chosen by the company . These steady investments allow the company to guarantee you fixed payments later on . Your payments are also guaranteed to last a number of years or a lifetime , determined in advance . Variable annuities are invested in stocks and more risky investments which the annuity holders choose themselves . They may have some guaranteed elements , but also have the potential to pay more than a fixed annuity , or less than a fixed annuity , due to that element of risk .
That is an excellent question ! Fixed annuities are the simplest of the three main types of annuities . They are generally the safest in terms of risk , because the fixed rate of return is clearly stated . A fixed annuity will have a guaranteed interest rate that is fixed for a period of years . The other annuities , indexed and variable , will have rates and returns that can change based upon the profit or loss in the marketplace . I hope that helps , thanks for asking !
No , a fixed annuity is not a security and is not governed by the SEC . A fixed annuity guarantees that you will receive a fixed payment for a fixed period of time ... either a number of years or for the rest or your life . As such , no part of the annuity is invested in the stock market or other securities where there is the risk of loss .
Some examples of annuities are : 1 -RRB- Fixed annuities that provide a minimum guaranteed return a. Fixed Immediate Annuities -LRB- you put in a lump sum and immediately start collecting payments -RRB- b. Fixed Deferred Annuities -LRB- you put in periodic premiums , then start receiving payments later -RRB- 2 -RRB- Variable Annuities whose returns are based on the market 3 -RRB- Indexed Annuities whose returns are based on a specified equity-based index
A variable annuity has features that make it an attractive purchase . A variable annuity is often seen as a hedge against the ravages of inflation . The time to buy a variable annuity is when you want to establish a long term savings program . Normally the objective of the program would be to accumulate money for retirement . You would consider a variable annuity if you were dissatisfied with the return offered on other annuities . The final consideration is to evaluate your risk tolerance to determine if a variable annuity is the correct contract for you . In order to purchase a variable annuity you must deal with a registered representative who holds a variable annuity license in your state . This agent receives additional supervision for your safety . This agent will provide you with a prospectus for any fund available in the variable annuity The primary feature or a variable annuity is that the contract is an annuity . An annuity can provide an income that you can not outlive . This feature can be different in various variable annuities but the fact that a lifetime income is available is extremely important . Another feature that would make a variable annuity attractive is that there isnt any taxation on gain during the accumulation period of the annuity . The gain is reinvested inside the annuity and this compounding effect is very important . A variable annuity unlike other annuities is not based upon interest , rather it is based upon the performance of underlying investment accounts which you may tailor to suit your specific needs and interests . You are normally granted the right to transfer between investment options without triggering income taxes . Many of these transfers also avoid any fees . There are risks associated with investing in a variable annuity , including loss of principal . A variable annuity is flexible . It can be changed throughout the accumulation period to meet your specific requirements . You risk tolerance can change over time . The variable annuity will allow you to change the mix of investments held by the variable annuity . If you become apprehensive about the market , there is almost always a fixed account to provide steady interest without fear of loss . There are fees associated with a variable annuity that are not always found in other annuities . These fees reflect the fact that the value of the annuity is invested , rather than merely earning interest . There are opportunities in most variable annuities to shift from fund to fund and to shift from variable funds to fixed funds . Normally there arent any fees for this service . Like most annuities surrender fees may be applicable . This is because of the long term nature of the contract and can be understood when compared to the early withdrawal penalties that are a part of certificates of deposit . These surrender fees are often waived in the event of disability . Like other annuities the variable annuity allows you to select a beneficiary . Many variable annuities provide for a guaranteed minimum death benefit that provides some safeguards for your family should you retire before you retire . The death benefit from the annuity would pass by contract to the beneficiary in the event of death avoiding probate expense and delay . Many variable annuities will return the amount of deposits as a death benefit should the value of the annuity be less .
Is an indexed annuity a fixed annuity ? No , not usually unless provisions exist within the indexed annuity to mimic a fixed annuity . With a fixed annuity you 're provided a set interest rate for the year from the insurance company . It is up to the company to come through as they 've committed themselves for that outcome . An index annuity on the other hand , has potential for a variety of returns established by the policy owner . A return could be as high as 10 % for a year or zero percentage based on how the individual creates the policy .
Fixed annuities have fixed rate of returns credit once every year on your anniversary date . It is compounded normally daily . Then their are fixed index annuities that offer a fixed rate of return or one that is indexed to the indexes such as the Dow Jones or Nasdaq and several other indexes each insurance company has its own twist on its offering of index plans
end question
start question
home-insurance
How Often Do You Pay Homeowners Insurance ?
Homeowners Insurance also known as Home Insurance or Hazard Insurance is an annual policy issued for a term of 12 months . Although the majority of homeowners pay their insurance in full annually , most insurance plans have more frequent payment plans designed to alleviate the stress of payment in full once a year . It is important to note that it is usual and customary to charge a billing fee for payment options other than paying by one single payment once a year . We provide an online format to obtain a quote and buy home insurance online in multiple States ; it may be used by Escrow/Closing Professionals , Mortgage Professionals , Real Estate Agents and directly by Consumers . An exemplary online experience for all ! WEBSITELINK
Depending on the company , there are a number of payment options available.Personally , I offer monthly , quarterly , annual , or every other month options . If you have a mortgage on your house , you can also set up escrow payments , which means you pay the mortgage company and they pay your insurance out of an escrow account . I would recommend checking with an insurance professional to review your options .
The most expensive mistake a homeowner can make is to be underinsured . Regardless of what the premiums were , a single high value loss that exceeds the limits of the policy can make those saving immaterial . Setting adequate limits is absolutely crucial . The person that can help set appropriate limits is a reliable insurance agent . This is a far greater problem than many think . The primary place where this shows up is having inadequate liability limits . Your homeowners policy provides liability coverage for personal injury and property damage law suits . The company pays all costs for a lawsuit up to the limits of the policy . After that the homeowner is facing the lawsuit alone . Most companies do not offer adequate liability limits and most policyholders select limits that are lower than the maximum offered by the company . An umbrella policy is necessary for most homeowners . The second area that is often underinsured is valuable collections . The homeowners policy has internal limits for recovery on certain items . Most homeowner dont know that their inherited sterling silver is woefully underinsured . They dont understand that those guns in the cabinet could be destroyed and they would only get a fraction of their value . The same is true of jewelry , a coin collection , and many other items . This is all detailed inside the policy , but few homeowners ever read their policy . Some people continue to underinsure their structure . While not as common it is an increasing phenomenon . A homeowner will improve the home and never inform the company or agent . In the event of a loss the amount of coverage might not return the home to its updated glory . This coverage is really inexpensive , however a loss can be paralyzing . Some homeowners have multiple homes . The second homes are often in hazardous areas , such as lakefront , beach front and mountain property . The cost of replacing one of these homes can exceed the insured value because of inflated reconstruction costs . If a forest fire sweeps through some summer cottages , there will be a great demand for contractors to do the work and there will also be bidding for materials . It can get ugly . So adequate insurance is the first step , the second step is to focus on the policy itself . Homeowners can often save significant money by increasing the deductibles on their policies . The deductible should be set at the amount of loss that could be absorbed without serious disruption to the family finances . That is often more than the deductible in the policy . Companies traditionally offer discounts if coverages are packaged . Some companies cover a wide range of policies and by bringing those to a single carrier premium savings can often be realized . This is particularly true if you own another residence that you lease to someone else . Often extending liability coverage from you homeowners policy will save you money . Companies often give discounts for loss prevention . The most common is the central station monitored alarm systems . While companies are rarely as generous as the alarm sales people indicate , there are savings to be had by simply providing a certificate of installation . Sometimes the homeowners policy will be modified if substantial rehabilitation is done to the home . You would need to talk to your agent about this . You could also discuss the jewelry insurance if the jewelry is most often located in a safe deposit at the bank .
The annual premium for a homeowners insurance policy is an individual computation because the policy itself is tailored to the specific requirements of the named insured and the property being covered . Even though premiums and coverages may be similar in a neighborhood with similar homes , there will usually be peculiarities that will make most of them somewhat different . Every home has a fire rating . That fire rating is based upon proximity to a manned fire station and adequate water . Those ratings are published and used by most insurance companies . The fire rating is often a mystery to homeowners because they rely upon the fire station down the road one mile , however , their home is not in the district covered by that fire station . There are complicated agreements between fire districts that allow them to cross boundaries and assist in fires but each has a primary area of coverage that always receives priority . Homeowners often rely upon standing bodies of water and consider them adequate for firefighting . Again , that is a matter of evaluation and does enter into the fire rating . However , a swimming pool will not necessarily improve the fire rating of a home . Insurance companies mine the mountains of information available on losses and can identify the loss differences based upon territories . These territories are usually bounded by zip codes . They become a part of the rating process that determines the premium charged for coverage . The major determinant in the development of the premium for a homeowners policy is the cost of rebuilding the residence . Because a homeowners policy is based upon a formula , this amount drives the amount of coverages extended to personal property and non-attached structures on the property . This figure is determined , generally , by an outside evaluation system . Frequently the cost of rebuilding the residence doesnt match the price paid for the house or the estimated value of the house . While this is a source of consternation it is the cost of rebuilding the residence that guides the limits of the policy . There are certain risks that are excluded or limited . Coverage for some of these can be purchased in the homeowners policy . There might be a limit on the coverage for guns , jewelry , furs , currency and art . Some of this coverage can be purchased . There are exclusions for flood and earthquake and limited earthquake coverage is usually available for purchase . Flood insurance is almost always a separate policy . An often overlooked coverage is sewer backup . This is excluded in most policies but coverage can be purchased . Another is law and ordinance . The additional cost of repairing a house caused by changes in laws and ordinances is not covered in a normal policy but that coverage can be purchased . Liability insurance is the second part of a homeowners policy and could be the most important . The coverage extends to claims of personal injury and property damage and covers a wide range of scenarios . The homeowner can select the limit of coverage and this affects the premium . This is a place where a homeowner can be penny-wise and pound foolish . You can not have too much liability insurance . The computation for a homeowners premium is complicated . Some of the pricing is your individual choices and preference . Consult with a licensed agent for advice as choosing incorrect limits can lead to extreme displeasure at the time of a claim .
-- > Normal 0 What makes up a good homeowners insurance policy ? In my mind its a policy that is going to do what you want it to do , at a price you are willing to pay . The problem is , most insurance buyers dont really know what they want the policy to do . Most people seem to want a policy to repair or replace their home if its damaged . To me that means you want an all-risk policy on your home with a Guaranteed Replacement Cost feature , which automatically increases your amount of insurance following a loss , to whatever it takes to rebuild your home if it is damaged and has to be rebuilt . All - Risk type policies will not cover everything but they will specifically state what you are not covered for and you can decide where to go from there . Few policies include the Guaranteed Replacement feature ; so make sure you ask for it . And if the company doesnt offer it , you may want to check with someone else . Most people also want their personal stuff replaced should it be damaged or destroyed . So a good homeowners policy should do that . That means , all-risk replacement cost coverage for all your stuff . If its not all-risk -LRB- often called Special Coverage or Open Perils -RRB- Replacement Cost , you may want to look further . Again , not all types of damage will be covered but the policy will tell you what you are not covered for so you wont have any surprises . Often specific exclusions can be eliminated for an additional cost . Most policies dont include these features so make sure you ask for them if that is the kind of coverage you expect . Good homeowners policies will include coverage for the additional expenses you may incur should your home be damaged and you have to live somewhere else while it is being repaired and a nominal amount of Personal Liability coverage , a good one will have limits not less than $ 300,000 . A good homeowners policy will be offered by a financially strong , at least A-rated insurance company hopefully with a local contact to help you understand what you are getting , makes sure it covers any special situations that make up your life and is there should you have a significant claim . A good homeowners policy is one that doesnt get cancelled the first time you have a claim . Buying insurance on-line may be popular and convenient but you have to know what you are doing . Remember if there is a problem , you are one small policy and they are one big insurance company . It may be a good time to have somebody local on your side .
-- > Normal 0 Of course , the most important issue to consider before selecting any insurance company is be certain they are financially sound and able to back up the promises they make in their insurance policies . Beyond that , for a homeowners policy consider what you are looking for . Why even consider any agent or insurance company if they are unwilling or unable to offer the coverage you want and need ? So , what do you want your home policy to do ? Rebuild your home if it is destroyed ? Pay you to replace your personal property if it is damaged or destroyed ? Defend you and pay a judgment if you are sued for injuring someone or damaging his or her property ? If so , Id suggest looking for an insurer that offers : Guaranteed Replacement Cost Coverage on your home . Many companies dont . Most insurance companies will pay you to rebuild your house but they will stop paying when you limit is reached . Following a major storm , wild fire or other disaster , building materials and available labor become scarce . Prices increase and consumers find they may not have enough insurance . Guaranteed Replacement Cost Coverage automatically increases your limit to whatever you need to rebuild your home , even if it is double or triple the amount of insurance you carry . Replacement Cost and Special Coverage on your personal property . Most homeowners policies limit coverage on your personal property to a number of specific named perils . Look for insurers who offer Special Coverage , often referred to as all - risk , replacement cost coverage not only on your home but your personal property as well . Personal Liability coverage is an important yet often overlooked part of your homeowners policy . Many families include high limit Personal Umbrella coverage as part of their insurance program . Personal Umbrellas are often considered the least expensive way to purchase high personal liability limits . In addition , these policies should have broader insuring agreements with fewer exclusions and limitations than standard home and auto policies . If these features are available , I would then consider the annual premium and possibly the availability of a local agent who is committed to assisting you should you have a problem .
A hazard insurance policy is more often referred to as homeowner 's policy or property insurance policy . The term ` hazard insurance ' was commonly used to describe the coverages provided in the policy , in bygone days . Today , we most often hear of the coverages as those under a homeowner 's policy . Less frequently but fairly often , you may hear of ` property insurance ' . However , the policy covers more than just property so this term really does n't properly describe the policy . However , all three terms really mean the same thing . The homeowner policy provides reimbursement to the policyholder for damages from many natural perils , like fire , wind , and theft . It also provides some liability related coverages .
Although property coverage under the homeowners form is extremely broad there are special limits to losses of certain types of property and losses under certain conditions . This is particularly true when the property is unusual . There is a special limit of coverage on sports memorabilia and collectors cards . The company will reduce the amount it will pay on this type of loss to a specified amount , usually $ 2500 . One of the problems is establishing the value of these types of items . Another problem is that the items are susceptible to theft and so coverage is routinely denied if the sports memorabilia is in transit or shipped by regular mail . That restriction is waived if they are shipped by registered mail . The company will probably not cover the loss of sports memorabilia if it is located in an unattended vehicle . Finally they will usually limit the loss of a single item . Although a homeowners policy usually provides replacement coverage for the structure of the home it is frequently subject to a special limit for the roof . This special limit affects the homeowners recovery at the time of loss to the actual cash value of the roof if it is more than a given age such as ten years . Water damage is often understood to be flood damage but there are types of water damage that can occur inside the home that are also excluded or have special limits . The first point to make is that a homeowner might think that wind-blown water is covered because wind damage is covered . This is specifically excluded in most policies . Also excluded is water or sewage which backs up through sewers or drains . Another water exclusion is water which comes from below the surface of the ground and this damage is often seen in sidewalks , driveways , foundations and swimming pools . A final point is that other materials that are carried along by water are also excluded . There are special limits that govern recovery of water damage losses if the homeowner doesnt take prompt steps to stop the damage , or waits a long time to initiate repairs . Many companies have special limit that affect certain breeds of animals . These limits apply to personal injury particularly . Specified breeds that are frequently excluded are pit bulls , Doberman pinschers , and Rottweilers . However , if the homeowner has an animal with a history of biting , losses arising from the actions of that animal can also be excluded . Regardless of breed many insurers have a special limit on the losses that they will pay for personal injury , frequently $ 25,000 per occurrence . Under some circumstances the insurance companies will allow you to purchase coverage for the items that have been excluded . A good example is the water damage caused by water from outside the plumbing system which backs up through sewers or drains . There is rarely covered if the damage is the result of negligence . My father-in-law removed a toilet . The subsequent flooding was not covered . The most frequently purchased special limit coverage is jewelry coverage . This is a complicated subject but it allows coverage for items that are more valuable than the basic homeowners policy will cover . The same sort of coverage is available for weapons , furs and other high value items which are subject to special limits .
The answer here is `` maybe '' . It really depends upon the situation and the coverage . In general , if you consider the same house and the same coverage , the homeowners coverage will cost you less . let 's start with some terms . In the industry , we usually call landlord insurance either dwelling fire , or a dwelling policy . It points to the difference between this and a homeowners policy . A homeowners policy has 6 coverages : A. Dwelling - the structure B . Other Structures - detached garages , shed 's , pole barns , etc. . C. Personal Property - Your stuff D. Loss of Use - The extra costs you 'll incur if you have to live somewhere while your home is repaired E. Personal Liability - Protects you from being sued F. Medical Payments - Pays for injuries that happen on your property without having to be sued . A Dwelling Policy , in general does n't have any coverage C , Personal Property . As a landlord , you 're worried about the building and your liability . Your tenant 's personal property is their responsibility to insure . Dwelling policies are more complicated to put together than homeowners policies but I 'll leave that discussion for another time . Lets talk about why Dwelling Policy usually costs more than a Homeowners policy . With a homeowners policy the insurance company has a greater sense of security because they only have one entity to worry about , the homeowners and their family . They have a financial interest in keeping their home safe , secure , and in good repair . With a rental property , you may have many different tenants occupy that home and they have no financial interest in the home itself . A tenant is much more likely to let things go that may eventually cause a claim . Additionally , with a homeowners policy , the liability is protecting the insured from others , with a dwelling policy , you 're also being protected from the people that actually occupy the home . Now , one last thing to mention . If you 're renting your home and it 's insured on a homeowners policy , change it now . If there 's a claim on the home and the insurance company finds out it 's being rented , they may refuse to pay your claim . Most homeowners policies require the home to be occupied by the owner for coverage to apply . Find a good agent that knows how this works and how to put this coverage together for your situation . It 's much better to know what your coverage is and make choices rather then to think you have coverage you really do n't
A Personal Auto Policy -LRB- PAP -RRB- generally comes with five coverages included in the premium . 1 . Auto Liability ... protects you from claims other people make against you arising from auto accidents 2 . Uninsured/Underinsured Motorists Liability -LRB- UIM -RRB- ... protects you for claims you make against other drivers who do not have insurance or do not have enough insurance 3 . Medical Payments ... pays money to doctors and hospitals for your medical expenses arising out of auto accidents 4 . Collision ... pays for damage to your car arising out of auto accidents where you collide with another car or object , like a tree . 5 . Comprehensive ... pays for damage to your car arising out accidents that are other than collision , for example , flood , fire and theft . When you ask , `` How Much Auto Insurance Do I Need ? '' , I 'm assuming you mean # 1 , Auto Liability so I 'll limit my answer to that coverage . In subsequent postings , I 'll answer how much you need for the other coverages . So , how much Auto Liability Insurance do you need ? It depends . If you just want to get on the road and be legal about it , in New Jersey , the minimum limit of insurance is $ 35,000 for each accident . You are also required to purchase Uninsured/Underinsured Motorists Liability and Medical Payments and they also have minimum limit requirements . Other states have similar minimum limit requirements and they are spelled out at each state 's insurance department website . Minimum limit policies will get you on the road , but they are not a smart use of your dollars . Consider an auto accident where you strike a Lawyer 's Mercedes ... his new Mercedes . Think $ 35,000 will take care of everything ? I would n't bet on it . And if $ 35,000 is not enough , you 'll pay personally for a long time . Now , if your primary goal is adequate protection for you , your family and your assets , you need to take a step back . Liability claims against you arising out of the use of an auto is one area you should be concerned about . You should also be concerned about liability claims arising out of owning a home , operating a boat or a motorcycle or an RV . Liability claims can also arise from owning vacation property . You can trigger a claim . Your spouse can trigger a claim and your children can trigger a claim . Considering all the people in your life who can trigger a claim and all the ways they can do it , How much is enough liability insurance ? How much should you buy ? Answer : I do n't know . But I do know EVERY smart insurance consumer , concerned about `` how much insurance is enough ? '' should purchase a $ 1 million Personal Umbrella Policy . A Personal Umbrella Policy is a secondary policy . Your auto policy , homeowner policy , boat policy , and so on are all primary policies . Each primary policy has its own limit of insurance . In the event of an accident -LRB- in the home , in the car or on the water -RRB- , you have a primary policy to protect you . If the amount of primary insurance is not enough to pay a claim , the Personal Umbrella policy adds a million dollar cushion . Is a Personal Umbrella policy expensive ? No . A million dollar umbrella GENERALLY starts around $ 125 . That 's $ 125 for $ 1,000,000 of liability protection you can use over your auto insurance or your homeowner insurance or your boat insurance and so on and so on . If there is a better deal in the insurance business , I 'm not aware of it . Now if you 're sold on the idea that a Personal Umbrella Policy has merit , we need to return to your original question : `` How much Auto Liability Insurance do I need ? '' You need an amount of insurance that satisfies the minimum requirements of the Personal Umbrella Policy . For example , if your Personal Umbrella Policy requires you have a $ 300,000 Personal Auto Liability Limit , that 's what you need to buy for your auto policy . If the requirement is $ 300,000 and you have $ 250,000 , there will be a $ 50,000 gap in the event of a serious claim . Again , for example , you 're responsible for a serious auto accident . It ends up costing $ 600,000 . Your auto policy will pay $ 250,000 , you 'll have to pay $ 50,000 and then the umbrella will pay the remaining $ 300,000 . So you can see , you need to buy the correct amount of auto and home insurance and the correct amount for any other primary policy so you do n't have a gap in coverage . Can you buy a Personal Umbrella Policy with a limit higher than $ 1 million ? You can , but the higher the limit , the greater the scrutiny . I hope I 've answered your question , but if I have n't , feel free to call , fax or email me .
This is a list of some of the general exclusions in a homeowners policy : 1 . Freezing , Discharge , Leakage or Overflow - Unoccupied Residence : We do not pay for damage if the dwelling is vacant , unoccupied -LRB- including temporary absence -RRB- or under construction , unless the insured takes reasonable care to : a. maintain heat in the building ; or b. shut off the water supply and completely empty liquids from any plumbing , heating or air-conditioning system , water heater or domestic appliance . If any insured fails to do this , we do not pay for loss caused by freezing or the resulting discharge , leakage , or overflow from the system , water heater or domestic appliance . 2 . Freezing , Thawing , Pressure or Weight of Ice or Water : We do not pay for damage to structures -LRB- other than buildings or carports -RRB- such as pools , fences , retaining walls , septic tanks , piers , wharves , foundations , patios , and paved areas caused by freezing , thawing , or pressure or weight of ice or water , whether wind driven or not . 3 . Theft : We do not pay for theft or attempted theft from the insured premises while the dwelling is : a. under construction and unoccupied ; or b. vacant for more than 60 consecutive days immediately before the loss . Theft does not include acceptance of counterfeit money , fraudulent post office or express money orders , or acceptance of checks or promissory notes which are not paid upon presentation . We do not pay for theft or attempted theft committed by an insured or tenant . 4 . Vandalism or Malicious Mischief or Glass Breakage : We do not pay for loss caused by vandalism , malicious mischief or breakage of glass or other glazing materials while the dwelling is vacant for more than 60 consecutive days immediately before the loss . A dwelling under construction is not considered vacant . We do not pay for loss caused by vandalism , malicious mischief or glass breakage committed by a tenant . We do not pay for loss caused by vandalism or malicious mischief committed by an insured . We do not pay for loss caused by glass breakage committed by an insured while the dwelling is vacant for more than 60 consecutive days immediately before the loss . 5 . Seepage or Leakage : We do not pay for loss caused by repeated or continuous seepage or leakage of liquids or steam from within a plumbing , heating or air-conditioning system , water heater , or domestic appliance . We do pay for loss caused by the accidental leakage , overflow , or discharge of liquids or steam from a plumbing , heating , or airconditioning system or domestic appliance . We also pay the reasonable cost of removing and replacing those parts of the dwelling or related private structure necessary to make repairs . We do not pay for loss to the system or domestic appliance from which the liquid or steam escapes . 6 . Settling , Cracking , Shrinking , Bulging , or Expanding : We do not pay for loss caused by the settling , cracking , shrinking , bulging or expanding of a dwelling or other structure -LRB- or any part of them -RRB- , or pavements or patios . 7 . Vermin , Rodents , Insects or Domestic Animals : We do not pay for loss caused by vermin , rodents , insects or domestic animals . 8 . Smoke : We do not pay for damage caused by smoke from agricultural smudging or industrial operations . We do pay for direct loss by fire , explosion , or smoke -LRB- not otherwise excluded -RRB- which results from any of the above . Remember every policy is different . Please read your policy completely to understand the coverage provided and any exclusions that there may be or contact your local agent to have them go over the policy with you .
There are various deductibles in homeowner policies . The higher the chosen amount of the deductible , often between $ 100 and $ 1,000 or more in a typical homeowner policy , the lower the premium you should be paying . The amount you choose as your deductible is what you as a homeowner will absorb in the event of a covered loss . Once the amount of a covered loss is determined , the insurance carrier responds by paying the claim less the homeowner deductible . Generally you choose the amount of your deductible by determining the highest amount you are willing to pay on your own in the event of a covered loss . How much risk can you afford to hold ? Toward determining this , it is important to remember that you do not want to be submitting claims for small losses . A poor loss history will work against you in the long run . So , use that as another determining factor in the amount of your chosen deductible . Always ask your independent agent to help you with this process .
You sure can toke and get life insurance ... . kinda ... Do n't take all our answers as a 100 % YES that you can ... . Since the time of the last posts , a LOT has happened politically around the subject of weed . Some life insurance carriers have lightened up on their guidelines as well . If you like a little bud from time to time , HERE ARE THE TIPS I have wen looking for life insurance : 1 -RRB- BE UPFRONT . You 're going to have to pee in a cup and donate a little blood . So do n't lie . Tell the agent you smoke !! 2 -RRB- Be honest about how much & how often . How much and how often is very important when picking the right carrier . If you have any more questions , reach out !! - gravy
Homeowners insurance does not cover the death of the owner . Homeowner 's insurance protects the homeowner from sudden losses relating to the structure itself . Life insurance covers the death of the homeowner . Benefits are paid to the policyholders designated beneficiaries . Often the homeowner is also the primary breadwinner , and that income is needed to continue making mortgage payments , and repairs to the property .
Renters Insurance in the US is an outgrowth of the regular Homeowners Insurance policies that have been in use in many states since the mid 20th Century . In fact for many companies the forms in use continue to be variations -LRB- with appropriate state approvals -RRB- of forms developed by the Insurance Service Office , ISO . The Insurance Service Office is not alone in developing contractual homeowners and subsequently renters policy forms in use in the various states . There are other product development groups and larger companies often develop their own product offerings . With all that said , there are some common elements to homeowner and renters policy and by far the use of annual -LRB- 12 month terms predominates -RRB- . Decades ago there were companies using forms that lasted as much as three years for homeowners , but the reality of getting appropriate approvals from the regulators , responding to loss results and getting mortgage companies to accept the policies has all led to a fairly standardized approach in the US that homeowners and renters policies are primarily annual contracts . But do n't throw away all your old policies when you get to the end of a year if you are all aware of an event that might give rise to coverage during that time period . For example suppose during the term of your renters policy your dog bit a neighbor . That occurrence then would be associated with the payment of loss for the infliction of bodily injury even though the damage is only assessed completely for years to come . Her is why I mention dog bites . In many states you have absolute liability for your dog 's aggression . And , dogs who maul a victim are often attacking children -LRB- easier prey to the dog -RRB- and the damages are usually to the child 's head . Therefore as they age there can be a need for repeated surgeries to address the scaring . Since the renters policy is typically an occurrence policy , the policy which will respond is not the current insurer several years out , but the insurer at the time of the event or '' occurrence ''
Homeowners insurance is important part of helping to protect yours ' and your family financial futures . A home is a huge investment without homeowners insurance how will you rebuild after a fire or tornado . How will your protect your assets if someone is hurt on your property if you do n't have homeowners insurance ? This is just a couple of the coverages that are provided by homeowners insurance . To find out more about what a homeowners insurance policy has to offer contact your local agent .
Insurance Companies price their product without truly knowing what the costs will be . In doing that they look at hundreds of variables to determine a pricing outcome to present to you.In fact it is not uncommon for a specific carrier to have millions of price points in a state . So with that caveat let me try to be more specific . An important piece of the rating will be how long have you been driving ? Any tickets or accidents you have ? Whether you live on your own and rent , or are part of a family account with your parents , Or married or single . So it is best to try and get an agent or company to understand your personal situation and then the vehicle that you need to insure.Don ' t overlook the use of the vehicle . This a very important rating factor . If you commute , be sure your agent or company knows how often you do that . and how far away form your residence you travel . And if you are a student be sure to mention that you have a grade average of a '' B '' or better , if you do . Advise as well , about any drivers training you took in the last several years . What we see today is greater segmentation of blocks of similar , but different exposures and one thing that you might not realize is that carriers often even price your age in six months increments , meaning you get a better price at 23 than 22 and one half .
A whole life insurance policy is an extremely flexible product that can meet many needs in retirement . The most obvious need is death . It is obvious that retirement always ends in death . Death is not inexpensive . The proceeds of a whole life insurance policy can pay off some or all of those expenses . After a certain age term policies can not be written at any price . I recently had a client who forgot that there was a life policy on her husband . She was paying his funeral expenses on an installment plan . I discovered the policy and brought it to her attention . She was delighted . Another use of a whole life policy is to transfer property to heirs . Often a person will want to leave money to children , grandchildren or a favorite charity . They will then try to conserve their retirement assets so that money will be available when the die . Unfortunately they often rob themselves of lifes simple pleasures in their drive to provide that inheritance . A life insurance policy can do that at the beginning of retirement leaving the person the balance of assets to spend as they wish . Some people have estates that are subject to estate tax . The problem with estate tax is that if there isnt cash to pay the taxes , assets are often sold at below market value to pay the tax . Having cash can make the difference of keeping the family business going , maintaining the family farm or closing them up for taxes . Since that can happen at any time , a whole life policy is particularly flexible in that regard . Whole life insurance is often used when a person wants to leave a specific valuable asset to one child but wants to treat all the children in the same manner . The heirs that are not going to get that valuable asset could receive equivalent proceeds from a whole life policy and everyone would be happy . A whole life policy is often used to purchase the interest of another party in a business . In this case the surviving partners dont particularly want to share everything with a widow who may not be acquainted with the business . A whole life policy can provide the cash to take care of that situation by giving the survivors the funds they need to purchase the widows interests . Sometimes whole life insurance is used to fund day to day living expenses in retirement . I just finished a comparison that showed that a whole life policy performed as well as a fixed annuity in accumulating money for retirement and that it did that with the promise to pay the full benefit should the person die before retiring . The whole life policy has non-forfeiture provisions which can pay a lifetime stream of income if desired or the policy would also give the person the flexibility to use the policy in other ways depending upon future , unforeseen events . This may sound strange but I often get requests for whole life insurance from older individuals . They seem to appreciate the value of lasting protection at a fixed price .
This is a great topic for one peculiar reason . Many folks in the US have forced placed insurance . This is the mortgage company taking over responsibility for securing coverage when you as the property owner have failed to do so . The main problem is that forced placed insurance is usually very expensive and imposed on the least educated consumers . Take charge your life and buy your insurance wherever you find the right coverage at the right price . Be as diligent in pursuit of a '' good deal '' on your homeowners insurance as you would on auto insurance . There are substantial variations in the coverages under a homeowners policy much more so than on an auto policy : here is why : Auto insurance protects you in your involvement with others so the greatest protection is for damages , Bodily injury or Property Damage that you do to others . So you are more often dealing with third party -LRB- the first party is the you , the second party is the insurer , and the third party is the one you injure -RRB- . Section II of a homeowners policy involves third party liability , but most of the property losses in general are first party payments by the insurer . Your house is hit by a tornado , Your insurer has to respond to you ! so , look at the nuances of coverages offered by insurers . They are many : including such things as scheduled property , water and sewer back up , automatic extension of dwelling limits , law and ordinance coverage , mold remediation , and so on . If you do n't understand the coverages offered ask your agent for an example of how a coverage would be used . An educated consumer is a better consumer .
A home is the largest single purchase that most people make in their lifetime . There are two characteristics that make home ownership difficult . The first is that the ownership of a home creates a situation of responsibility where you become responsible for personal injury and property damage that comes out of home ownership . For example , someone enters you home , slips on a rug and falls . Injuries can be minor or severe . It is quite possible that you could be sued to recover the loss sustained by the person who fell . This is a liability loss . The second is that you have an enormous amount of your money and the mortgage companys money invested in the home . It is usually a multiple of your annual income and would represent a great financial loss were the home to be destroyed . Your mortgage company is particularly concerned about losing their collateral and will require hazard insurance to protect their interests to the greatest extent possible . The list of things that could happen to damage a residence is lengthy but most of the causes or perils are contained in the HO-3 Homeowners policy . There are notable exceptions which should be restated . You are probably not covered for damage caused by earthquake or flood . These coverages are available but in slightly different forms and often with different policies . Because an individual can not sustain the personal loss of a law suit or the destruction of their property they turn to an insurance company to pool their risk with hundreds of thousands of other residences . This recognizes the probability of damage and spreads that risk over a large number of residences . The insurance company charges enough to be able to pay those losses when they occur . Your state insurance commissioner is very concerned about the adequacy of the insurance companies admitted in your state . While there are various types of home insurance policies , I will confine my comments to the most common , the HO-3 Homeowners policy . Coverage A in a homeowners policy covers your residence . The coverage includes additional items but does not cover land or water . It doesnt cover trees except as covered in incidental coverages . Coverage B covers related structures on the property . It has the same restrictions as Coverage A and doesnt cover any business structures , except for a residence on the property that you lease to others . It covers you garage Coverage C covers the personal property that you either own or are responsible for . This is a very important coverage and contains internal limits on selected classes of property such as money , securities , jewelry , guns and watercraft . Misunderstandings often arise about this coverage and it should be discussed thoroughly with your insurance agent . Modifications of this coverage are relatively inexpensive and an unpaid claim is an expensive way to discover that you werent adequately covered . Coverage D pays the necessary and reasonable increase in living cost you incur when your household meets with an insured loss . The company will try to get you back into your residence as quickly as possible but will make sure that you are able to maintain your normal standard of living during the repairs . Coverage D also covers the loss of rents you might experience in the event of a covered loss . If you have an apartment on the premises and it is damaged by a covered loss , this section would apply . There are other limits and extensions in this section that require your attention if you are leasing property . There are number of ancillary coverages including credit cards , trees , fire department charges , debris removal , emergency removal of covered property and grave markers . There are several pages of definitions and exclusions which should be read . Most confusion arising from a homeowners policy come from this part of the policy . Many people think that a homeowners policy pays for routine maintenance or deterioration . Coverage L covers personal liability and provides that the company will pay up to the limits for expense that you are liable for because of bodily injury or property damage that happens on your premises . Coverage M covers medical payments to others and provides necessary medial expenses if they are incurred on your property and result in bodily injury . There are several pages of definitions and limitations on liability coverage . The policy then defines your responsibilities . You must notify the company of a loss , you must cooperate and many other responsibilities . At the back of the policy are a number of endorsements which changes the policy . These apply to specific types of property such as trading cards , animals , a roof and others . Together the HO-3 Homeowners policy is a package of protection that is sufficiently broad to meet the requirements of both lenders and homeowners . Special additional coverages are offered and should be considered . Many of these additional coverages can be included in the basic policy .
end question
start question
life-insurance
What Is 20 Year Term Life Insurance ?
20 Year Term Life Insurance is a common term life insurance policy that people get when they want to provide protection for their children or other obligations . A 20 year term policy usually stays the same price for 20 years , although you need to check the years that the premium is guaranteed to be sure it can not go up in price during that time . When the 20 years are up , the policy will end or the price will increase drastically .
Not all 20 year term policies mean the same thing . My company offered a 20 year non-renewable term policy which meant that the company would pay a death benefit to the beneficiary if the insured died during the precise 20 year period covered by the policy . The premium on that policy would remain level throughout the 20 year period . No benefits existed after the policy terminated . Today they offer a 20 year term policy that provides the same death benefit as before and the premiums remain the same as before , however , the policy can be renewed after the 20th year and for many years after that . The policy will terminate at which time coverage can not be renewed . The premium after the first 20 years is considerably more expensive than in the first twenty years . My company also offers Cash Value Term which for a slightly higher initial premium develops cash value . It works much like the other 20 year term policies except that at the conclusion of the 20 year period there are a variety of options that allow the policy to remain in force for a lower premium or select a permanent , reduced death benefit .
20 Year Term Life Insurance means that the policy will not go up in price for 20 years . Usually , the premium is guaranteed not to go up for the entire 20 years . However , some companies guarantee the premium to stay level for only part of the term , e.g. 10 years of the 20 year term . Then after that the premium could possibly go up . There are many guaranteed level term policies for the entire 20 years , so worth it to shop around . Also , it is a very popular policy , so prices are competitive .
Return Of Premium is a rider that is attached to a term life insurance policy . lets say you have a 20 year term life policy you pay your premiums to continue coverage . at the end of this 20 years if you do not have a return of premium policy you have paid for 20 years of coverage . Now lets take that same 20 year policy and add the return of premium to it . Yes you will pay more in premiums but , in this case 20 years have past and you have outlived your policy your premium payments are then returned to you tax free ! so now you have basically had 20 years of coverage for free . Now you do have toconsider that there may be some fees throughout the policy that may effect the total amount of the return but these are usually small changes .
The percentage of the population that will die at a given age increases with age . That is , there will be a higher percentage of 50 years die in a given year than 20 year olds . That is why term life insurance is more expensive for a 50 year old than it is for a 20 year old . Imagine what the cost would be fore term life insurance for a 90 year old . The choice then , is to purchase a policy that will pay a death benefit should you die in the next term -LRB- 10 20 years for example . -RRB- The problem is that you are likely , very likely to live longer than the term . If you still want the death benefit paid to those you love , you must take steps to get a longer term policy , in which case you will probably still outlive the policy term , or buy a whole life policy . The whole life policy will have an initial premium that is greater than the term insurance premium , because it is going to pay the death benefit sometime and it guarantees not to increase the premium , ever . The whole life policy can do this because it accumulates reserves in anticipation of the increasing frequency of death claims as you age . These accumulated reserves become the cash value of the policy . Because the premium for term insurance increases as you become older there will be as point at which the whole life insurance purchased at an earlier age will be cheaper than the term policy purchased at an increased age . The cash value gives the policyholder the flexibility to make adjustments over time . It provides a cash reserve or emergency fund and a loan can be taken against the policy . If the coverage is no longer necessary it can be surrendered and the cash value will be given to the owner of the policy .
Life Insurance term length means the number of years that the policy will stay in effect . Usually , the term length is also an indication of how long the policy premium will stay the same price . But some policies guarantee the premium to stay the same -LRB- level -RRB- for only part of the term . E.g. . A 20 year Term policy has term length of 20 years . It may or may not be guaranteed not to go up in price for the full 20 years . When the 20 years are done , the policy will end , or the premium will go way up , usually over 10 times higher than it was before .
Universal Life insurance , also known as UL , is a form of permanent life insurance . A UL can be designed to last your entire lifetime . Because age is a critical element in the formula for figuring the cost of Universal Life , if you purchase a UL when you are young , the low rate you pay can be locked in for life . Term life insurance has a definite end . If you purchase 20 year term life insurance it will last 20 years . If you were to die 20 years and one day later , your coverage would have lapsed and no death benefit payout would occur . If after the first 20 year term you decided to get another term policy , you have to re-qualify by having another medical exam performed . Your age and possibly even changed health conditions would cause the cost of this new term policy to be considerably higher . Some types of UL policies can have a cash build-up inside them adding a savings component to the policy . The cash value grows tax deferred and can be used along life 's path for just about anything you deem appropriate including college education and even a retirement income stream . Speak with a qualified independent insurance agent to learn which type of life insurance will work best for your individual situation .
A 20 year Term life insurance policy is one that will provide coverage for 20 years , presumably with the premium staying the same for the whole 20 years . You need to check the policy features to make sure your premium is guaranteed not to go up for the entire 20 years . When the 20 year Term is up , the policy will end or the premium will jump up extremely high and can go up yearly after that .
Term life insurance can have a couple of different guarantees . The first guarantee is the premiums are guaranteed level for the term purchased . For example , a 20 year term life insurance policy has guaranteed level premiums for 20 years regardless of change in health , location or occupation . The second type of guarantee is the renewability of the term policy . You may purchase the above mentioned 20 year term policy with level premiums for 20 years , but the policy may be guaranteed until age 85 , of course for a much higher premium .
20 Year Term Life Insurance is a common term life insurance policy that people get when they want to provide protection for their children or other obligations . A 20 year term policy usually stays the same price for 20 years , although you need to check the years that the premium is guaranteed to be sure it can not go up in price during that time . When the 20 years are up , the policy will end or the price will increase drastically .
A million dollar policy for a 70 year old preferred non-smoker will be around $ 9785 10 year term , $ 14510 15 year term , $ 21600 for 20 year term , $ 23828 Guaranteed UL . A million dollar policy for a 70 year old standard non-smoker will be around $ 12825 10 year term , $ 22110 15 year term , $ 25930 for 20 year term , $ 32840 Guaranteed UL .
To compare life insurance rates , be sure you are comparing the same type of policy to another . E.g. Comparing 10 year term to 20 year term is not a legitimate comparison . Check to see how long the rates are guaranteed not to go up . If one 20 year policy is guaranteed not to go up in price for 20 years , it is not fair to compare it to a 20 year term policy that is guaranteed not to go up in 10 years . Do not compare a policy by the rating they give you . Compare them by price . Ratings are just words . Price is where the rubber meets the road . If you have a quote for a level premium that will not go up in price , and also quotes for graded coverage/policies that can go up in price , it is usually best to go with the level premium that will not go up in price , even if it is higher .
A 10-year term life insurance policy is a level benefit term life insurance policy that states that the premiums will remain fixed and guaranteed for 10 years . Term life insurance guarantees the premiums will remain fixed for a specific number of years -LRB- 10 , 15 , 20 , 25 , or 30 years -RRB- . After the initial period of premium guarantee expires -LRB- the term period -RRB- , the policy will be annually renewable and premiums will increase each year -LRB- based on age -RRB- . 10-year term policies seem like a great deal because they typically offer the lowest possible premiums for a given amount of coverage . One of the main reasons to buy longer is to protect your insurability and pay a small amount for a longer time instead of securing a new policy when you 're 10 years older and your health has changed . Creating a combination of benefits can often be a great idea -LRB- e.g. having part term and part permanent coverage or having part 10 year term , part 20 year term , etc. -RRB- Please let me know if I can be of further assistance . Thanks very much .
There is also a 20 -LRB- and 30 -RRB- year term policy that has a couple more built in options at the end of the term period . With most 20 yr term plans your only options are pay the huge increase in premium , convert to a higher priced plan , or just walk away and try to qualify for a new plan , health permitting . Most term plans have zero cash values . Another option is a term plan called Return Of Premium -LRB- ROP -RRB- . With ROP you may have an option to get all your premiums back at the end of the level period . Example would be an annual premium of $ 700 . would return $ 14,000.00 at the end of 20 years . Another important option with ROP Term would be a reduced paid up Life Insurance plan . Using the same example , instead of taking the $ 14,000 you take a $ 25,000.00 paid up policy , regardless of your health . The premium is higher for ROP , but would be much lower than regular term over the 20 year period . What is the right plan for you ? A good agent will show you the options .
It depends on your policy . Premiums on Whole Life never go up . A properly funded Universal Life will never go up . Term insurance will go up at the end of each term . One year term will go up each year , 10 year term every 10 years , 20 year term every 20 years and so forth , assuming that the term policy is renewable .
Term insurance comes with many option . First , consider the reason for buying the insurance and find a product that meets that need . If you are covering a mortgage for example you might want to consider a 20 or 30 year term policy . There are two options here . Decreasing or Mortgage term or level term . I prefer level term due to the fact that many people do not remain in the same home for the life of the mortgage any more . There are policies that will add mortgage disability and Return of Premium . Next , how long will I need this coverage , 1 year , 5 years , ten years ? Also , what is my budget ? With term insurance the shorter the term the less the initial premium , so a on year term will be less than a 20 year term , at least initially . Every time the policy renews , the premium will increase . Is the policy renewable and convertible . Renewable means that you can renew the policy at the end of the term even if your health gets bad . Convertible means that you can convert the policy , or part of the policy to a whole life plan , regardless of health . If you need to keep the insurance for a lengthy period of time I highly recommend a policy that is renewable and convertible . A good agent can help you determine your best choice for your individual situation .
Pure Term Life insurance has premiums that increase every year as you get older . Most people do n't like a premium that goes up every year so they decide how long they need the insurance and level out the premiums by buying level premium term . When you do this you are paying extra in the earlier years in order to level out the premium in the later years of your level premium period . That is why 1-year term is much cheaper than 20-year term . When you buy term life insurance , you should determine how long you want the premium to be level and buy it for that length . For instance if your mortgage is paid off in 18-more years , you should buy a 20-year level term policy if the mortgage payoff is the reason for the insurance .
A 20 year term life insurance policy usually : 1 -RRB- has a set premium for 20 years , 2 -RRB- has a set death benefit for 20 years , 3 -RRB- has no cash value , and 4 -RRB- will only pay the death benefit if the insured person passes away during that 20 year term .
The cost of a 20 year Term life insurance policy will depend on the age , sex , tobacco status , build , and health history of the applicant , along with a other factors such as dangerous hobbies and excessive traffic tickets . It can cost from $ 10/mo to thousands of dollars per month . To find what a 20 year Term life insurance policy will cost for you , you can run some quotes on the many websites offering them , or call an agency that sells 20 year Term from at least 5 different companies . Without being able to compare quotes for people of the same age and health , it is impossible to know what a good price is .
Term Life is a non-cash value life insurance plan that can be used very effectively for financial planning matching the policy to 10 year objectives , 20 year objectives , or 30 year objectives . When term life was first introduced it was justified by `` buy term and invest the difference '' . In other words save money by buying term and then select an aggressive growth mutual fund or if you prefer a savings account and when the term has expired for the purpose of the `` term life policy '' you do not want to have to buy term again because now you will be 10 , 20 , or 30 years older and since buying life insurance is a factor of what is the liklihood of your deatn I am sure you understand the older we get the higher the risk of our death
end question
start question
life-insurance
Who Can Cash In A Life Insurance Policy ?
The only person who can cash in a life insurance policy is the owner of the policy . The person insured is not always the owner . The owner can be either the person insured or the beneficiary . The owner could be another third party . Only the owner can cash-in the life policy .
That is a great question ! The insurance companies will only allow the person who owns the policy to make certain decisions . The owner is the only one who can name or change the beneficiary , and the only one who can cancel , or surrender the policy . Please be aware that the insured may or may not be the owner of the policy . Thanks for asking !
As David stated , only the owner of the policy can cash in a life insurance policy . It may need to be explained , as well , that not all life insurance polices can be cashed in , because not all life insurance policies have cash value . Even Whole and Universal Life policies usually take time to build up cash value , and Term policies never have cash value unless they have a return of premium feature . So , stated another way , only those who own policies that have cash value , can cash in their life insurance . But they can also borrow from their cash value , and that often is a better way to access the cash in the policy , so as not to give up the death benefit .
In Canada also only the owner can cash is a life insurance policy . If there is an irrevocable beneficiary their permission is required . In addition to loosing the protection there may be tax consequences when you cash in a policy . A suggestion would be to explore borrowing using the policy as collateral that way you could access the cash without a policy disposition and taxation . If you have further questions , or feel that I could be of assistance , please do not hesitate to contact me . If you would like to work with a local life insurance broker , you could start with a Google search . For example , if you search for : life insurance broker Halifax or life insurance agent Halifax , my name , along with several others , will come up . You can use the same method to find a life insurance broker in your community .
Whole Life and Universal Life are the two main types of permanent insurance coverage -LRB- there are sub-categories with in that - e.g. guaranteed universal life , current assumption universal life , indexed universal life , participating whole life , non-participating whole life , and others -RRB- . Permanent life insurance , in general , is designed to provide coverage for the rest of the insured 's life and build cash value . Universal life insurance features a flexible premium structure It 's , in short , a blend between term life insurance and whole life insurance . A universal life policy will guarantee the maximum death benefit for the lowest possible premium -LRB- making it much less expensive than a whole life policy with the same death benefit -RRB- . Like with whole life insurance , universal life will build cash value , although it will generally not accumulate as much cash value over the life of the policy as a comparable whole life policy it is essentially term insurance to age 121 , with the emphasis on a larger death benefit instead of greater cash value for the premium that you are paying . Universal life is ideal for anyone who wants to maximize the death benefit and is n't worried about building cash value . You can guarantee benefits up to age 121 -LRB- with most companies -RRB- - these policies can be structured to dial down the death benefit to a specific age as well -LRB- e.g. to age 90 , 95 , 100 , 105 , etc. -RRB- , which can reduce your premium by a good margin . Whole life insurance is a great vehicle for planning for the future . The premiums and death benefit remain fixed and guaranteed for life while the policy can build cash value at a great rate - this structure is known as a non-participating whole life policy . The other type is called participating whole life policy . Participating WL policies can pay out dividends which can be used in several ways : 1 -RRB- Decrease the premium - the premium would eventually hit $ 0 at some point and the policy would , in essence , be self-sustaining meaning the dividend is equal to or greater than the premium for the program -LRB- if greater , the difference can be used to increase the cash value or increase the death benefit -RRB- 2 -RRB- Purchasing paid-up additions - these additions increase the face amount of the policy 3 -RRB- Increase the cash value at a faster rate While whole life has many advantages , it is also the most expensive form of life insurance . Whole life features level premiums and death benefits and builds cash value at a faster rate than Universal life policies - the trade off between is that to increase the cash value faster , the premiums will be substantially higher -LRB- can often be 2-3x the premiums of guaranteed universal life policies on many occasions -RRB- . Please note , regardless of the permanent coverage type , the carrier takes back the cash value upon the death of the insured , and pays out the death benefit proceeds . Therefore , guaranteed Universal life policies allow you to maximize your death benefit and minimize your premium dollars that you pay for the coverage . I hope the information is helpful - please feel free to contact me for assistance with your life insurance coverage needs , including quotes and policy comparisons , and if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
Whole Life and Universal Life are the two main types of permanent insurance coverage -LRB- there are sub-categories with in that - e.g. guaranteed universal life , current assumption universal life , indexed universal life , participating whole life , non-participating whole life , and others -RRB- . Permanent life insurance , in general , is designed to provide coverage for the rest of the insured 's life and build cash value . Universal life insurance features a flexible premium structure It 's , in short , a blend between term life insurance and whole life insurance . A universal life policy will guarantee the maximum death benefit for the lowest possible premium -LRB- making it much less expensive than a whole life policy with the same death benefit -RRB- . Like with whole life insurance , universal life will build cash value , although it will generally not accumulate as much cash value over the life of the policy as a comparable whole life policy it is essentially term insurance to age 121 , with the emphasis on a larger death benefit instead of greater cash value for the premium that you are paying . Universal life is ideal for anyone who wants to maximize the death benefit and is n't worried about building cash value . You can guarantee benefits up to age 121 -LRB- with most companies -RRB- - these policies can be structured to dial down the death benefit to a specific age as well -LRB- e.g. to age 90 , 95 , 100 , 105 , etc. -RRB- , which can reduce your premium by a good margin . Whole life insurance is a great vehicle for planning for the future . The premiums and death benefit remain fixed and guaranteed for life while the policy can build cash value at a great rate - this structure is known as a non-participating whole life policy . The other type is called participating whole life policy . Participating WL policies can pay out dividends which can be used in several ways : 1 -RRB- Decrease the premium - the premium would eventually hit $ 0 at some point and the policy would , in essence , be self-sustaining meaning the dividend is equal to or greater than the premium for the program -LRB- if greater , the difference can be used to increase the cash value or increase the death benefit -RRB- 2 -RRB- Purchasing paid-up additions - these additions increase the face amount of the policy 3 -RRB- Increase the cash value at a faster rate While whole life has many advantages , it is also the most expensive form of life insurance . Whole life features level premiums and death benefits and builds cash value at a faster rate than Universal life policies - the trade off between is that to increase the cash value faster , the premiums will be substantially higher -LRB- can often be 2-3x the premiums of guaranteed universal life policies on many occasions -RRB- . Please note , regardless of the permanent coverage type , the carrier takes back the cash value upon the death of the insured , and pays out the death benefit proceeds . Therefore , guaranteed Universal life policies allow you to maximize your death benefit and minimize your premium dollars that you pay for the coverage . I hope the information is helpful - please feel free to contact me for assistance with your coverage and if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
Determining which permanent life insurance is `` the best '' comes down to your specific needs . There are several different types of permanent life insurance available including Universal Life , Indexed Universal Life and Whole Life . Of these three main types , Universal Life has the lowest premiums . Universal Life can last your entire lifetime and would typically be considered the most basic type of permanent life insurance . Indexed Universal Life and Whole Life are two other types of permanent life insurance and each one can have cash value build-up inside the policy . The cash build-up is calculated differently in each of these types . For an Indexed Universal Life policy , you pay a premium that more than covers the cost of insurance and the excess cash builds up inside the policy . That buildup of cash is credited interest based on an index or combination of indices and how they perform over time . Your cash value is never in the market but can grow if the market is up year-over-year . The IUL can be designed to build up a large cash value over the years and that cash value grows tax deferred . If you need cash along the way , you can get a loan against your policy and use it for your own needs . Many people use an IUL to build cash value for college expenses or to supplement their retirement income . Whole Life insurance policies generally offer fixed premiums . In a participating whole life policy , the cash value inside the policy increases as the insurance company provides dividends based on the overall return on its investments . Earnings beyond those needed to cover policy expenses go to the policy 's cash reserve from which you can use to cover future premiums or borrow against during life 's journey or to supplement retirement income .
As David stated , only the owner of the policy can cash in a life insurance policy . It may need to be explained , as well , that not all life insurance polices can be cashed in , because not all life insurance policies have cash value . Even Whole and Universal Life policies usually take time to build up cash value , and Term policies never have cash value unless they have a return of premium feature . So , stated another way , only those who own policies that have cash value , can cash in their life insurance . But they can also borrow from their cash value , and that often is a better way to access the cash in the policy , so as not to give up the death benefit .
Term life insurance has a definitive ending . If you purchase 20 year term insurance it will end in 20 years . Other types of life insurance include Universal Life , Indexed Universal Life and Whole Life and each of these would be considered a type of permanent life insurance . Universal Life insurance can last your entire life if structured correctly . Universal Life can have a flexible premium which will allow the excess of premium above the actual cost of insurance to be credited to the cash value of the policy . Interest is credited to the cash value each month , adding to the cash value , once policy expenses are taken out . The interest percentage is set by the insurance company . Using the same flexible premium concept , when you determine the amount of interest to be credited to the policy by referencing a financial index such as the S&P 500 , it is an Indexed Universal Life -LRB- IUL -RRB- policy . No money is actually invested in the referenced stock market . The IUL can be designed to build up a large cash value over the years and that cash value grows tax deferred . If you need cash along the way , you can get a loan against your policy and use it for your own needs . Many people use an IUL to build cash value for college expenses or to supplement their retirement income . Whole Life insurance policies generally offer fixed premiums . In a participating whole life policy , the cash value inside the policy increases as the insurance company provides dividends based on the overall return on its investments . Earnings beyond those required to cover policy expenses go to the policy 's cash reserve from which you can borrow against during life 's journey or to supplement retirement income .
The cash value is the portion of whole life insurance that has built up so far in your cash account . Think of it like money in the bank . The way whole-life is designed , it has a level premium for the length of the policy or until it is paid off . What 's really happening is as the cash account grows , the actual insured amount reduces by the same amount . You become more and more self-insured each year . If you buy $ 100,000 whole-life policy , in the begining your insured amount is $ 100,000 and your cash value is zero . Many years later your cash value is $ 40,000 and the insured amount is $ 60,000 for a total death benefit of $ 100,000 . Several more years later your cash value is $ 90,000 and the Insured amount is $ 10,000 for a death benefit of $ 100,000 If you live to age that the policy endows -LRB- usually age 95 or 100 on older policies and age 121 on newer ones -RRB- the cash value is $ 100,000 and the insured amount is zero . You are now self insured . You can use the cash value while you are living by taking policy loans which are actually loans against the cash build up in your policy not actually withdrawals from the policy or you can cash surrender the policy and walk away with the cash . If you have a participating policy that pays dividends , you can have additional cash value and death benefit build up from that .
Your Life Insurance policy will have the specifics of the `` Grace Period '' that provides and cushion for you when you miss a payment . Life Insurance companies usually want youto keep you policy . Their Grace Period is usually 30 to 60 days depending on the policy and the company . The type of policy will make a difference as well . A Term Life Insurance policy does not have any `` Cash Value '' or a side account that can grow at an interest rate like a savings account and cover the missed premium . This `` Cash Value '' is a feature of a Universal Life policy . The Term Life policy would be in danger of lapsing much quicker and you are probably going to cancelled quicker . A Universal Life policy with cash value is going to use the saving portion to pay the premium . The Universal Life will lapse once the cash value is depleted and the grace period expires . You can call your agent or Life Insurance company and work out options on the Universal Life policy such as lower the `` Face Amount '' or amount of death benefit to help you make the policy last longer . `` Whole Life Insurance '' will have a grace period as well . Coverage options beyond the grace period become more complicated . This Whole Life policy also has a `` Cash Value '' or savings portion as well . You will be subject to the policy 's `` Non Forfeiture Options '' within the policy . These options are different for each policy . You will have to check your policy . Usually , there are 3 options : Return of the cash value to you minus any loans you took out , you can change to a lower amount of insurance that is `` Paid Up '' or you do not have to pay premiums for the amount of death benefit , or you can change to a `` Term Life Insurance '' policy for a specific period of time then the insurance stops .
Whole life insurance has many advantages to it . The first being that your premiums are fixed and guaranteed for the rest of your life and as a permanent insurance program , it builds cash value over time . If it 's a participating whole life policy , any dividends that are paid out can be used to either increase the death benefit via paid up additions , reduce your premium , or make a payment to you directly -LRB- options depend on which carriers whole life policy you have -RRB- . If you use the dividends to reduce the premium , the policy can become self-sustaining after a number of years - meaning no more premium payments . Non-participating policies only build cash value - these types of plans do not pay out dividends . If you 're buying whole life coverage when you 're young and its cash value builds for years and years , it can create a nice nest egg for funds that can be used during your retirement years . It 's important to remember that if you borrow from an insurance policy , you 're creating a loan as the monies are expected to be paid back . If you cash out the policy , you lose the life insurance coverage . An alternative for those who are not very concerned about the cash value and want to maximize the death benefit of your life insurance , you may want to consider a guaranteed universal life policy instead of whole life . GULs can offer a larger amount of coverage than whole life policies for the same premium or save you a ton of money on your premiums for a given level of coverage . Make sure to consult with an experienced life insurance broker who can create a structure that will best serve your needs , goals , and budget . I hope the information is helpful - please feel free to contact me for help and if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
There are several reasons . With cash value life insurance such as whole life , you do not have to worry about prmiums going up as you get older and most likely to need the insurance . The cash value can help provide a buffer if your financial situation changes . Every whole life policy as nonforfiture options in the contract . The cash value can help conserve a poliy utilizing thes options . If you can not afford the premiums any longer the cash value can be used to buy a reduced paid up policy according to a schedule in your policy . You can also stop making payments and the policy will continue in-force with the cash value buying extended term insurance until the cash value is used up . You can cash surrender the policy and get some equity . When you deduct the cash value of a policy from the total premiums you pay you will see that in the long run cash value insurance was far less expensive than buing term . You can also take a loan on your cash value that is very interest friendly and will have no repayment schedule , although it is always best to at least pay the interest since the amount of the loan would be deducted from the face amount when you die .
Whole Life has set premiums that never go up , guaranteed cash values , and will be around when you need it as long as you pay the premiums . It also has what is called non-forfeiture values . If you stop making payments and the policy has cash value you can : 1 . Let the policy go on extended term which will provide the full face amount for a period until the cash value runs out . 2 . Take a reduced paid up policy for whatever the cash value will buy . 3 . Cash the policy in . Universal Life has Flexible Premiums , you can change the amount you put into the plan . Flexible Death Benefit , you can change the death benefit , reducing it or if your health is good increase the benefit without having to purchase a new policy . Universal Life has a guaranteed interest rate , not guaranteed cash value . Since the premiums are flexible the danger is in under funding the policy which will make the policy lapse , even if you are making premium payments . Universal Life is basically term insurance with a cash value side fund combined into one package . If there is not enough cash in the policy side fund to pay for the term insurance the policy lapses . It is important to make sure you are properly funding the Universal Life policy by paying at least the Target Premium . Each year you will receive an annual statement showing the cost of the term insurance and the amount of cash in the policy . Have your agent review this with you at least every two years to make sure it is performing as planned . As you can see , while the Universal Life has some attractive features , Whole Life is a safer more stable product .
Unfortunately , you can not borrow from a term life insurance policy because term life insurance does not have any cash value from which to borrow . Cash value is only present in permanent policies -LRB- Whole Life , Universal Life , and their variations -RRB- . Not all permanent policies have enough cash value to tap into until they have been in effect for some time , and some -LRB- e.g. guaranteed universal life -RRB- may never have much cash value . If you want a policy with cash value that you can borrow from in the future , most permanent policies will have an illustration that you can review before you purchase it , so you can see who much cash value will be available .
There are two main types of life insurance . The first is term life insurance which has no cash value . Think of it as renting . The second type of life insurance is cash value life insurance . The most popular go by names like , whole life , universal life , indexed universal life and variable life . All of which have cash value that builds with time . If you have one of these types of plans , look for the pages marked `` illustrations '' . You will find a cash value column explaining how much cash is built up in a given year . Most policies allow you to take a `` cash loan '' against them and keep your coverage in force . You may also cash out completely or roll the cash value to another plan . You will find the average policy will not have cash value until coverage has been in force for about 5 years .
You can only cash out life insurance that has a cash value build-up . Permanent life insurance programs -LRB- including both universal and whole life policies -RRB- bulid cash value - term insurance programs do not build cash value . If you 're looking to cash out your policy , there are a number of things to consider before deciding whether to cash out any life insurance policy . One of the things that most people do n't think about is their insurability , especially when they have an existing plan . They may have preferred rates at the time they got it , but are now being treated for some medical conditions -LRB- heart issues , diabetes , cancer , etc. -RRB- and may be looking at standard or substandard rates on a new plan if they decided to get coverage again later on . If you 're looking at securing new coverage / replacing the old policy , you should compare the two structures and make sure it 's the most favorable course of action for you . Another item to review on the policy before cashing out is whether there are still any surrender charges on the policy and whether there would be any taxable gains -LRB- the cash value is greater than the sum total of premiums paid into the policy -RRB- - these 2 items can affect how much money you actually receive if you cashed out the policy . I highly recommend consulting with an experienced insurance broker who can review all of these points and others with you so you can make sure it 's an optimal move for you . After all things considered and you still want to cash out the policy , you can call the carrier/contact your agent and tell them you want to terminate the coverage -LRB- the amount you receive would be less any surrender charges or loan fees , if applicable -RRB- and they 'll send you the necessary paperwork Depending on the size of the cash out , an option to consider would be putting the money into an annuity to guarantee an income for the rest of your life -LRB- or for a fixed number of years -RRB- . I hope the information is helpful - please feel free to contact me for help and if you have any questions . Thanks very much .
Whole life policies are well suited for needs that do not diminish over time . Some commonly found uses for whole life are : Family protection : To provide funds to support a surviving spouse and/or minor children , particularly for individuals who start a family later in life ; to pay final bills , such as medical or other estate expenses and federal and state death taxes . Business planning : Whole life insurance is often used for many different business purposes , such as insuring key employees , in split-dollar insurance arrangements , and funding non-qualified deferred compensation plans . Business continuation planning often involves using whole life insurance as a source of funds for buy-sell agreements . Accumulation needs : Some individuals will use the cash value feature of whole life as a way of accumulating funds for specific purposes , such as funding college education , or as a supplemental source of retirement income . Charitable gifts : To provide funds for a gift to charity . Whole life insurance , sometimes called permanent insurance , or ordinary life , is designed to stay in force throughout ones lifetime . As long as the policy owner meets his or her obligations under the policy , the policy remains in force , regardless of any changes in health that may occur . Unlike term insurance , where premium payments generally increase , as the insured gets older -LRB- the chance of death increases with age -RRB- , premiums for most whole life policies remain level . A portion of each premium payment is set aside to earn interest . Over time , a whole life policy will develop cash values . The accumulated cash values form a reserve which enable the insurer to pay a policys full death benefit , while keeping premiums level . During life , many whole life policies have provisions to borrow a portion of the accumulated cash value . If a policy is terminated without the insured dying , there are various surrender options for the cash value available to a policy owner . Steve Savant is a contributor to Back Room Technician , an Advisys Company
How can one `` cash in '' a life insurance policy depends on who you are in relation to the policy . If you are the Owner of the policy you can contact the issuing company and request assistance in surrendering the policy - that is if you want to terminate the policy and collect whatever cash value it might have . So it must have accumulated cash value enough to offset the surrender charges or there will be nothing to `` cash in '' on . Another option if you are the Owner is to take a policy loan or a partial surrender of the amount of cash value the policy has accumulated . This you can do without terminating the policy . If you are the Beneficiary , the Insured must have died in order for you to `` cash in '' . To do that you will need to produce the death certificate and present it to the insurance company along with proof that you are indeed the Beneficiary . Payment of the death benefit is the longest process of the options listed above . Taking a policy loan is the fastest way to get cash from your policy . And a total surrender will usually take just a little longer than a policy loan .
Whole life insurance is a great vehicle for planning for the future . The premiums and death benefit remain fixed and guaranteed for life while the policy can build cash value at a great rate - this structure is known as a non-participating whole life policy . The other type is called participating whole life policy . These policies can pay out dividends which can be used in several ways : 1 -RRB- Decrease the premium - the premium would eventually hit $ 0 at some point and the policy would , in essence , be self-sustaining meaning the dividend is equal to or greater than the premium for the program -LRB- if greater , the difference can be used to increase the cash value or increase the death benefit -RRB- 2 -RRB- Purchasing paid-up additions - these additions increase the face amount of the policy 3 -RRB- Increase the cash value at a faster rate The question of who should buy whole life insurance depends on the need for the coverage . When you 're young and you have 40 years to grow the cash value/face amount , it can be a helpful vehicle for growing funds while providing great life insurance protection -LRB- especially participating WL policies -RRB- . If you are buying purely for the death benefit , I recommend you look at purchasing a Guaranteed Universal Life policy -LRB- these policies maximize the death benefit and minimize the premium as they do n't focus on the build-up of cash value -RRB- . If you only need the coverage for a set amount of time -LRB- e.g. 20 years -RRB- , then you may want to look into term life insurance . While whole life has many advantages , it is also the most expensive form of life insurance . Consult with an experienced life insurance broker to find out which benefit structure will be most suitable for your needs and budget . Please feel free to contact me for assistance . Thanks very much .
end question
start question
life-insurance
What Is Postal Life Insurance Bonus Rate ?
I know that postal workers have group life insurance , but the one thing many postal workers over look is there life insurance can increase over 300 % through out your career and after retirement start to decrease when i ` ts needed the most . What i recommend is do a review of your life insurance policy , because any bonus that you may want or think is available really wont matter if your life insurance decreases every year in retirement .
I know that postal workers have group life insurance , but the one thing many postal workers over look is there life insurance can increase over 300 % through out your career and after retirement start to decrease when i ` ts needed the most . What i recommend is do a review of your life insurance policy , because any bonus that you may want or think is available really wont matter if your life insurance decreases every year in retirement .
The Long Term Care Insurance Program you may be referring to is the Federal Long Term Care Insurance Program . It is a program that provides group long term care insurance to federal employees , US Postal Service employees and annuitants , active and retired members of the uniformed services , and their qualified relatives .
This can happen , for example , any time a new development is being built but the street has not been processed and accepted by the Postal Service . Here in Connecticut , I have not found this to be a huge problem . The property on which your new home sits in fact has some designated identifying lot number assigned to it and recorded in your Town or City offices . If mail is the problem , you can always set up a Post Office Box so that you will receive your insurance documents in good order . I had personal experience with this many years back and it really did not take long for the wheels of the USPS to move their process along .
Whenever you are comparing advertised rates of fixed annuities , it is very important to know the details behind the advertised rate . There are a multitude of variables between different companies . Many companies offer `` bonus rates '' for new investors . These bonus rates look very attractive , but are easily misunderstood . Key questions to ask are : Does the advertised rate include a bonus ? If so , what are the details ? How long is the advertised rate locked in once you invest ? Is there a guaranteed minimum interest rate ? If so , what is it ? Is there a bail-out option if the earning rate drops significantly in the future ? What are the terms ? For the right person in the right situation a fixed annuity can be a very good investment . However properly comparing annuities is more involved than comparing simpler products such as CD 's .
Bonus annuities are annuities that pay a bonus to the contract owner generally as an incentive to start the annuity . This bonus is generally paid as bonus to the interest rate in the first year of the annuity . These benefits can greatly improve yield on the cash in the annuity . Some care should be taken when considering these annuities as they often come with recapture charges if the owner cashes in the annuity within a few years from opening it -LRB- i.e. the bonus will be forfeited -RRB- .
A terminal bonus -LRB- or capital bonus , or final bonus -RRB- can be paid upon maturity of a mutual policy . This is a feature of some `` with-profit '' Whole Life policies in Europe and Canada and other countries in the Commonwealth of Nations . It is comparable to a final dividend in the US .
Life insurance as a standalone product is not deductible . However , life insurance in a qualified plan is deductible . The life insurance portion of the annual contributions can use whole life -LRB- 49.5 % -RRB- or universal life -LRB- 25 % -RRB- . In 419 DBO plans life insurance is strictly a death benefit product and can also be deductible . Executive bonus plans can compensate an employee in a bonus arrangement , but the purchase of the life insurance is outside the corporation , but may as a balance sheet transaction may in end with the same result .
Tax deferred annuities have differing crediting methods : interest rate crediting , indexed crediting and separate sub account crediting and debiting , i.e. you could lose money . But in addition to crediting methods , some annuities actually credited a one year bonus at the beginning of the terms of the annuity . That bonus is generally applicable for the guaranteed income rider or vested over the contract period of the annuity .
That 's a good question ! Generally the answer is no - if you are referring to premiums on life insurance for yourself . However there can be exceptions such as in Buy-Sell agreements . But in that case you 're buying insurance on someone else . There is a way to deduct for life insurance premiums however , but it 's not direct . If you pay bonuses to yourself or an employee equal to the amount of premiums you can deduct the bonus as a business expense , but of course you or the employee would need to pay income tax on the bonus .
A No Claims bonus is something that is more common with car insurance than health insurance . Think of it as the `` Good Hands Discount '' that good drivers receive , in the form of lower monthly premium payments , in exchange for not having accidents or other driving problems . While a No Claim Bonus is available in some other countries , and did exist in the U.S. in the past , such a practice is no longer allowed under regulations contained in the Afford Care Act that state insurance companies can not charge different premiums to people based on their health or claims history .
The simple answer to your question is that insurance premiums ARE NOT a deductible expense for anyone . However , depending upon the use of the insurance , for instance , as part of an Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan -LRB- SERP plans -RRB- , there are tax benefits -LRB- deduction -RRB- to the employer realized when the policy 's cash value is paid out to the employee . Additionally , administrative costs may be tax-deductible as a business expense . Separately , under anexecutive bonus plans where the bonus is paid directly in the form of premium payments to the insurer for policies owned and FBO of the executive , the employer has no ERISA reporting , potentially tax deductible costs and can avert tax rules applicable to Qualified Pans and employer owner line insurance . Please feel free to contact me through my profile if you have additional questions .
That is a very good question ! You are kind of between a rock and a hard place . If you contact them , and have a ` safe driver ' bonus , you could lose that , and with the subsequent rate increase , -LRB- if there is no first accident forgiveness plan -RRB- you might well exceed the expense of the repairs . On the other hand , if you do not know the person that she hit wo n't be the type that later claims back injuries or some such thing , and takes you to court -LRB- I 'd wonder about this if he or she documented and/or took pictures , and your wife did n't -RRB- , without the power of your insurance company behind you , you could be in a bigger mess . Another consideration is your deductible - if it 's more than $ 700 , you would end up paying that much anyway , and run the risk of a rate increase . If coming up with $ 700 is an issue , and you have a low deductible , then having the insurance company pay may be an option . Perhaps a good thing to do might be to contact your agent , and tell them you and your wife were talking about what would happen if one of you were to have an accident , and were not sure what would happen if so , and have them explain it to you . If it sounds good , then do it , if it sounds bad , then consider your risks of handling it out of pocket . Personally , I 'd probably call them , and explain it exactly as it happened , and trust my agent to what is best for me . I hope it works out for you , good luck , and thank you for asking !
In order to borrow from any life insurance policy , it must be a permanent or cash value policy . Unfortunately , group life insurance in almost all cases are term life insurance and have no cash value . Therefore , there is nothing to borrow from , just a death benefit at the insureds death . This is a great lesson as to why people should always purchase and own their own life insurance policy and view group life insurance as a bonus to heir beneficiaries . Very sorry to be the bearer of bad news . Good luck !
A single person may need life insurance for many different reasons . The single person may have debts that they want paid off if something happens to them or they may have other financial obligations that they want covered . If anyone financially depends on a single person , then life insurance would help in that situation . A single person may also need life insurance for estate planning , business purposes like keyman insurance , buy sell agreement , or an executive bonus plan . Life insurance is also a great way to leverage assets for charitable giving . This is a high level overview of possible reasons . It would be helpful to discuss your unique situation with an insurance professional .
The most common understanding of a supplemental executive retirement plan is one contributes to a permanent cash value plan : Participating Whole Life , Current Assumption Universal Life , Indexed Universal Life and Variable Universal Life . Product suitability needs to match up to the policy owners financial profile and risk tolerance . The policy design is critical to the cash accumulation , using the lowest cost of insurance option that complies with TAMRA . The most popular supplemental plan is a 162 Executive Bonus Arrangement .
The owner of a group life plan is the business owner or corporation providing coverage to the employees . The owner would hold the master policy and the employees would hold a certificate of coverage . Group life insurance is a nice perk for both employer and employee . For the employer it is a very affordable benefit to help secure employee turnover . For the employee , it is a nice added bonus to their personal financial plan . However , group life should never take the place of individual life insurance . If you change jobs in almost every case you will lose this coverage and run the risk of losing insurability as well .
I would suggest you call your Agent during business hours first , and find out if you have a claim-free bonus . Some policies offer it , some you have to earn after being with them for so long . If not , you would be better off paying out of pocket as your rates for claiming such a small amount could exceed the $ 700 worth of damage .
A deferred compensation plan is an arrangement created between the employer and the employee to delay portions of their salary and/or bonus until a future date , generally retirement . The employer can deduct the deferred salary when it 's distributed at the arranged date . The employee then takes the deferred compensation as ordinary income and pays taxes at their effective tax bracket rate . So in effect , it is a type of retirement plan .
I would say yes . Your ability to earn income is likely your biggest asset , so what would you do if you lost that ability ? Some important things think about when trying to figure out if disability insurance is right for you is : 1 -RRB- If you became disabled , could you continue to pay your bills -LRB- mortgage payments , car payments , credit card payments , etc. -RRB- ? 2 -RRB- How long would your savings last ? 3 -RRB- Would you still be able to retire when you planned or send your children to college ? 4 -RRB- What happens to your bonus compensation and retirement contributions ? Could you keep paying the overhead expenses if you own a business ? Most disabilities are not work related and therefore not covered by workers compensation and it can be very difficult to qualify for social security disability as many disability claims are denied - even if you are approved for Social Security , the payments will probably be significantly less than you earn . Disability insurance can protect you from losing your income and is one of the most important types of insurance you can buy , especially for business owners , key employees , physicians , attorneys , and anyone who has family that depends on their ability to provide income . A big advantage with disability insurance is that when you have a qualifying claim that triggers disability payments , the monies paid to you are paid as tax-free income -LRB- as long as you paid the prmeiums with your after tax dollars - most people do -RRB- . Please note , when you 're looking to purchase disability insurance , work with an experienced , independent disability insurance agent who can work with you on a personal level to help you determine what program is suitable to your needs and budget -LRB- disability insurance policies are very customizable -RRB- . Make sure you pay attention to the language in the policy - most importantly the definition of disability . The definition of disability is the most important aspect of your disability insurance policy and you want to secure the best definition you can -LRB- `` true own occupation '' is very much regarded as the best definition you can have -RRB- . I hope the information is helpful - please feel free to contact me for assistance with your disability insurance needs , including quotes and program comparisons , and if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
end question
start question
life-insurance
How Does A Life Insurance Trust Work ?
Life insurance does not need a specific life insurance trust to be the life insurance owner and/or beneficiary but it can provide some additional flexibility in planning . The decision to engage an experienced estate planning attorney to utilize a life insurance trust is usually reserved for more complex situations where the set up and maintenance costs can be justified . While there are many different types of trusts , an irrevocable life insurance trust is a trust with the primary purpose of owning a life insurance policy in order to remove life insurance proceeds from the taxable estate and , as a result , avoid paying estate taxes on those proceeds .
Generally speaking a life insurance policy is used to fund the trust . The trust spells out the conditions upon which the money can be paid out . For exam a Funeral Trust uses a life insurance policy that uses the trust as the beneficiary . The terms of the trust state that the funds can only be used to pay for matters related to final expenses . The life insurance policy is just the funding vehicle , the trust is the legal document specifying how those funds are used .
Assuming you are addressing irrevocable life insurance trusts -LRB- ILIT -RRB- , the chronology of events and ownership are very important . The grantor can not have any incident of ownership . The ILIT must be the owner and the date of the ILIT must precede the policy date . The ILIT will name the beneficiaries of the trust and premium paid by the ITLIT grantor must conform to annual gift tax or unified credit rules to avoid taxation of premiums . Consult your legal adviser before moving forward with any creation of ILIT .
Yes . There are two main life insurance trusts that people use - revocable and irrevocable life insurance trusts . People use life insurance trusts because there are tax advantages that it offers , helps protect the proceeds , and helps you distribute the assets to your children at the least possible cost . An irrevocable life insurance trust -LRB- ILIT -RRB- is a legal document set up to distribute life insurance proceeds in a specific manner , depending on how the trust is designed . ILITs receive special tax consideration from the IRS that is not given to life insurance policies that would otherwise be owned by a natural person or revocable trust . Since the trust is irrevocable , the terms of the trust can not be changed -LRB- think of it like putting the contents in a vault and throwing away the key - it ca n't be opened til the insured dies -RRB- . An ILIT can offer many substantial advantages to protect life insurance proceeds . It can also help you distribute your property to your children at the least possible cost . If you have a taxable estate , you have a choice - pay the tax with your own money or pay only a fraction of the tax and use someone else 's money to pay the rest . If you want to use someone elses money to pay the tax , you can buy a life insurance policy . The type of life insurance policy will depend on the specific circumstances , but is usually a survivorship universal life policy if used for estate tax purposes . The life insurance policy may be secured for pennies on each dollar of tax that you owe . By putting the life insurance policy in an irrevocable trust , the proceeds become available to pay taxes due upon death . A life insurance policy that you purchase will require the same premium whether you put the policy in the trust or keep it outside of the trust . If you put the policy in the trust , the death benefit is not included in the calculation of the size of the estate . This is a huge tax savings , especially if the proceeds are several million dollars . If you keep the policy outside of the trust , the proceeds will be included in calculating the size of the estate potentially increasing the size of the estate by a big margin , and you may therefore have to pay much higher estate taxes before any of the property can be distributed to your children or other beneficiaries . Please let me know if I can be of further assistance . Thanks very much .
There are two main life insurance trusts that people use - revocable and irrevocable life insurance trusts . People use life insurance trusts because there are tax advantages that they offer , they protect the proceeds , and helps you distribute the assets to your children at the least possible cost . An irrevocable life insurance trust -LRB- ILIT -RRB- is a legal document set up to distribute life insurance proceeds in a specific manner , depending on how the trust is designed . ILITs receive special tax consideration from the IRS that is not given to life insurance policies that would otherwise be owned by a natural person or revocable trust . Since the trust is irrevocable , the terms of the trust can not be changed -LRB- think of it like putting the contents in a vault and throwing away the key - it ca n't be opened til the insured dies -RRB- . An ILIT can offer many substantial advantages to protect life insurance proceeds . It can also help you distribute your property to your children at the least possible cost . If you have a taxable estate , you have a choice - pay the tax with your own money or pay only a fraction of the tax and use someone else 's money to pay the rest . If you want to use someone elses money to pay the tax , you can buy a life insurance policy . The type of life insurance policy will depend on the specific circumstances , but is usually a survivorship universal life policy if used for estate tax purposes . The life insurance policy may be secured for pennies on each dollar of tax that you owe . By putting the life insurance policy in an irrevocable trust , the proceeds become available to pay taxes due upon death . A life insurance policy that you purchase will require the same premium whether you put the policy in the trust or keep it outside of the trust . If you put the policy in the trust , the death benefit is not included in the calculation of the size of the estate . This is a huge tax savings , especially if the proceeds are several million dollars . If you keep the policy outside of the trust , the proceeds will be included in calculating the size of the estate potentially increasing the size of the estate by a big margin , and you may therefore have to pay much higher estate taxes before any of the property can be distributed to your children or other beneficiaries . Please let me know if I can be of further assistance . Thanks very much .
An irrevocable life insurance trust -LRB- ILIT -RRB- is a legal document set up to distribute life insurance proceeds in a specific manner , depending on how the trust is designed . ILITs receive special tax consideration from the IRS that is not given to life insurance policies that would otherwise be owned by a natural person or revocable trust . Since the trust is irrevocable , the terms of the trust can not be changed -LRB- think of it like putting the contents in a vault and throwing away the key - it ca n't be opened til the insured dies -RRB- . An ILIT can offer many substantial advantages to protect life insurance proceeds . It can also help you distribute your property to your children at the least possible cost . If you have a taxable estate , you have a choice - pay the tax with your own money or pay only a fraction of the tax and use someone else 's money to pay the rest . If you want to use someone elses money to pay the tax , you can buy a life insurance policy . The type of life insurance policy will depend on the specific circumstances , but is usually a survivorship universal life policy if used for estate tax purposes . The life insurance policy may be secured for pennies on each dollar of tax that you owe . By putting the life insurance policy in an irrevocable trust , the proceeds become available to pay taxes due upon death . A life insurance policy that you purchase will require the same premium whether you put the policy in the trust or keep it outside of the trust . If you put the policy in the trust , the death benefit is not included in the calculation of the size of the estate . This is a huge tax savings , especially if the proceeds are several million dollars . If you keep the policy outside of the trust -LRB- e.g. , as owned by a natural person or a revocable trust -RRB- , the proceeds will be included in calculating the size of the estate potentially increasing the size of the estate by a big margin , and you may therefore have to pay much higher estate taxes before any of the property can be distributed to your children or other beneficiaries .
Estate planning is preparing how your estate will be distributed and minimizing/paying off applicable estate taxes upon your death . Life insurance can be used to pay the estate taxes . A common course of action people take to minimize the estate taxes they will be subject to is creating an irrevocable life insurance trust -LRB- ILIT -RRB- . An ILIT is a legal document set up to distribute life insurance proceeds in a specific manner , depending on how the trust is designed . These trusts receive special tax consideration from the IRS that is not given to life insurance policies that would otherwise be owned by a natural person or revocable trust . Since the trust is irrevocable , the terms of the trust can not be changed . An ILIT can offer many substantial advantages to protect life insurance proceeds and help you distribute your property to your children at the least possible cost . The IRS code permits a unified tax credit to pass a certain value of property without having to pay a tax . When you exceed that value -LRB- a taxable estate -RRB- , a massive tax is applied that must be paid within 9 months of death . If the decedent is single , the tax is due accordingly . If the decedent is married , the tax is due after the second death -LRB- death of the spouse -RRB- . So the question becomes , would you rather pay the estate tax with 100 % of your own money -LRB- with after-tax dollars -RRB- or would you rather pay only a fraction of the tax and use someone else 's money to pay the rest -LRB- the insurance company -RRB- . If you want the latter , you can purchase a life insurance policy . The type of policy you should set up will depend on the specific circumstances , but for many situations it will usually be a survivorship universal life policy if the proceeds are to be used for estate tax purposes . Any life insurance policy you buy will require the same premium whether you put the policy in the trust or keep it outside of the trust . If you put the policy in the trust , the death benefit is not included in the calculation of the size of the estate - a substantial tax savings and key advantage in the estate planning process . If you keep the policy outside of the trust -LRB- e.g. , as owned by a natural person or a revocable trust -RRB- , the proceeds will be included in calculating the size of the estate you may inadvertently increase the size of the estate , and be subject to paying much higher estate taxes before any of the property can be distributed to your children or other beneficiaries . Consult with an experienced life insurance broker to discuss the available courses of action to set up a sound plan . Please feel free to contact me for help . Thanks very much .
Estate planning is preparing how your estate will be distributed and minimizing/paying off applicable estate taxes upon your death . Life insurance can be used to pay the estate taxes . A common course of action people take to minimize the estate taxes they will be subject to is creating an irrevocable life insurance trust -LRB- ILIT -RRB- . An ILIT is alegal document set up to distribute life insurance proceeds in a specific manner , depending on how the trust is designed . These trustsreceive special tax consideration from the IRS that is not given to life insurance policies that would otherwise be owned by a natural person or revocable trust . Since the trust is irrevocable , the terms of the trust can not be changed . An ILIT can offer many substantial advantages to protect life insurance proceeds and help you distribute your property to your children at the least possible cost . The IRS code permits a unified tax credit to pass a certain value of property without having to pay a tax . When you exceed that value -LRB- a taxable estate -RRB- , a massive tax is applied that must be paid within 9 months of death . If the decedent is single , the tax is due accordingly . If the decedent is married , the tax is due after the second death -LRB- death of the spouse -RRB- . So the question becomes , would you rather pay the estate tax with 100 % of your own money -LRB- with after-tax dollars -RRB- or would you rather pay only a fraction of the tax and use someone else 's money to pay the rest -LRB- the insurance company -RRB- . If you want the latter , you can purchase a life insurance policy.The type of policy you should set up will depend on the specific circumstances , but for many situations it will usually be a survivorship universal life policy if the proceeds are to be used for estate tax purposes . Any life insurance policy you buy will require the same premium whether you put the policy in the trust or keep it outside of the trust . If you put the policy in the trust , the death benefit is not included in the calculation of the size of the estate - a substantial tax savings and key advantage in the estate planning process . If you keep the policy outside of the trust -LRB- e.g. , as owned by a natural person or a revocable trust -RRB- , the proceeds will be included in calculating the size of the estate you may inadvertently increase the size of the estate , and be subject to paying much higher estate taxes before any of the property can be distributed to your children or other beneficiaries . Consult with an experienced life insurance broker to discuss the available courses of action to set up a sound plan . I hope the information is helpful - please feel free to contact me for help or if you have any questions . Thanks very much .
An Irrevocable Life Insurance Trusts is designed to ensure payments from an Insurance policy go towards a trust that has been pre-designed to determine how proceeds will be allocated upon one 's passing . This tool is used to ensure your wishes are carried out , as stated at the time the trust was established . One an Irrevocable Life Insurance trust is set up , the person who established the trust loses the ability to change how proceeds are later paid preventing anyone from changing the original intention of the trust .
In short , when it 's part of the calculation of the estate . The IRS code permits a unified tax credit to pass a certain value of property to a spouse without having to pay a tax . When you exceed that value -LRB- a taxable estate -RRB- , a tax is applied that must be paid within 9 months of death . If the decedent is single , the tax is due accordingly . If the decedent is married , the tax is due after the second death -LRB- death of the spouse -RRB- . A common course of action people take to minimize the estate taxes they will be subject to is creating an irrevocable life insurance trust -LRB- ILIT -RRB- . An ILIT is a legal document set up to distribute life insurance proceeds in a specific manner , depending on how the trust is designed . These trusts receive special tax consideration from the IRS that is not given to life insurance policies that would otherwise be owned by a natural person or revocable trust . Since the trust is irrevocable , the terms of the trust can not be changed . An ILIT can offer many substantial advantages to protect life insurance proceeds and help you distribute your property to your children at the least possible cost . Any life insurance policy you buy will require the same premium whether you put the policy in the trust or keep it outside of the trust . If you put the policy in the trust , the death benefit is not included in the calculation of the size of the estate - a substantial tax savings and key advantage in the estate planning process . If you keep the policy outside of the trust -LRB- e.g. , as owned by a natural person or a revocable trust -RRB- , the proceeds will be included in calculating the size of the estate you may inadvertently increase the size of the estate , and be subject to paying much higher estate taxes before any of the property can be distributed to your children or other beneficiaries . I hope the information is helpful - please feel free to contact me for help and if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
The most common trusts you see when looking at it in relation to life insurance is a revocable or irrevocable life insurance trust . When using a trust with life insurance , the trust will be the owner and beneficiary of the policy - whoever the trust is on will be the insured . When completing the application , you 're entering in the trust 's information -LRB- name of trust , date it was created , etc. -RRB- in the owner and beneficiary sections - some applications may have a separate trust information page to include as well . The carrier will also ask for a copy of the first several pages of the trust -LRB- needed for verification purposes -RRB- . The trustee of the trust will be the person signing the paperwork where it asks for signature of owner .
To set up an Irrevocable Life Insurance Trust -LRB- ILIT -RRB- , it is best to use an attorney who is an expert at tax laws to set up the trust . Then use a respected life insurance agent to help you obtain a policy , or transfer existing life insurance , into the trust . You will need to choose a trustee to administer the trust -LRB- this could be the lawyer -RRB- . Working together , you will get a trust that works for your lifetime .
The type of trust that is referred to as a life insurance trust is called an Irrevocable Life Insurance Trust -LRB- ILIT -RRB- . The owner of the life insurance must be the trust , so it is important to get the ILIT set up correctly . Not all trusts that are used for life insurance are Irrevocable Life Insurance Trusts . But that is the one most people are referring to when they talk about a life insurance trust .
Life insurance does not need a specific life insurance trust to be the life insurance owner and/or beneficiary but it can provide some additional flexibility in planning . The decision to engage an experienced estate planning attorney to utilize a life insurance trust is usually reserved for more complex situations where the set up and maintenance costs can be justified . While there are many different types of trusts , an irrevocable life insurance trust is a trust with the primary purpose of owning a life insurance policy in order to remove life insurance proceeds from the taxable estate and , as a result , avoid paying estate taxes on those proceeds .
A trust can be set up by an attorney . For life insurance purposes , you may consider a revocable or irrevocable life insurance trust . The structure of a life insurance policy with the use of a trust is generally the trust being the policyowner and beneficiary of the program -LRB- typically done with ILITS -RRB- . From there the trust will control how the proceeds will be distributed - this is done based on what was instructed in the trust documents .
A life insurance trust is an irrevocable , non-amenable trust that is set up for the purpose of being owner and beneficiary of one or more life insurance policies . A life insurance trust generally exempts the life insurance policy from estate tax . The trust also can spell out how the Trustee should manage the death benefit so it best serves the needs of specified minors . Before deciding to set up a life insurance trust you should consult a reputable life insurance agent and lawyer . Some things to consider are that the Insured person can not be the Trustee , and only the Trustee can change the beneficiary . Also , the Insured person can not borrow from the life insurance policy .
Can annuities be placed in a trust ? Yes , they can . Annuities offer a stable safe growth product that could be placed in trust if desired . Does an annuity have to be put in a trust ? No , not really . An annuity offers certain tax and death benefits on it 's own that would work effectively without being in trust anyway . But yes , they can go into a trust .
How to set up an insurance trust for a child ? I would advise that you see an attorney to set up a trust as insurance companies are not in the business of establishing trusts for policy holders . It is out of their legal bounds . They do however , honor a correctly established trust created for kids . I do n't know enough about how good trust software is on this subject to suggest it , but a person may want to look into it .
Generally speaking a life insurance policy is used to fund the trust . The trust spells out the conditions upon which the money can be paid out . For exam a Funeral Trust uses a life insurance policy that uses the trust as the beneficiary . The terms of the trust state that the funds can only be used to pay for matters related to final expenses . The life insurance policy is just the funding vehicle , the trust is the legal document specifying how those funds are used .
When talking about a life insurance trust , most people are referring to an irrevocable trust set up for tax purposes . While a living trust is simply a trust made while the grantor is living , when most people refer to living trusts they are referring to revocable trusts . A life insurance trust is usually a living irrevocable trust : set up during the grantor 's lifetime but unable to be changed or revoked .
end question
start question
health-insurance
Does Everyone Have To Have Health Insurance Under Obamacare ?
No , you do n't have to have health insurance . However , underthe Affordable Care Act , if you do not want to buy a health plan , you will have to pay a penalty -LRB- also known as an `` individual shared responsibility payment '' -RRB- . Many individuals have options for group insurance through their employer or they are on Medicare or Medicaid . If you decide to buy a health insurance plan , then you would either need to buy it on or off the health insurance exchanges . Buying on the exchanges is beneficial if you qualify for a subsidy . Subsidies can only be used for on-exchange plans - they can not be used towards plans sold off the health exchanges . If you choose to pay the penalty instead of securing coverage , you will still be responsible for 100 % of your medical care . The penalty is calculated in one of two ways -LRB- you pay whichever is the higher amount -RRB- . In 2014 , the penalties will be calculated as : 1 -RRB- 1 % of your yearly household income featuring a maximum penalty as the national average yearly premium for a bronze plan . 2 -RRB- $ 95 per person for the year -LRB- If under age 18 , then $ 47.50 -RRB- featuring a maximum penalty per family of $ 285 under this method . The penalty calculations will change each year . In 2015 , method one increases to 2 % of your yearly household income and method two increases to $ 325 per person . In 2016 , it will increase again to 2.5 % for method one and $ 695 per person for method two . The penalty methods will be adjusted for inflation in later years . If you have any other questions about your health insurance , send me a private message by clicking on my `` contact me '' button .
The announced intention of Obamacare was to get everyone who was not already insured through an individual , group or government health program to enroll in health insurance coverage . Will you be jailed for not having health insurance ? No . You will , however , be subject to a tax -LRB- as the Supreme Court defined it -RRB- / penalty -LRB- as the administration prefers to refer to it -RRB- for not having health insurance coverage that meets the requirements of the law . In practical terms the tax penalty is minimal -LRB- $ 95 or 1 % of modified adjusted gross income in the first year -RRB- and there are now a number of loosely defined `` hardship '' exemptions that a person can claim to avoid the penalty . Plus , the IRS can only withhold the tax penalty from an income tax refund , it can not be charged as an additional tax per se and you ca n't have your bank account or wages garnisheed by the IRS to collect the tax penalty . This begs the question as to just how effective a mechanism the tax penalty will be in motivating people to purchase health insurance . Certainly , based upon the preliminary results of the recently closed open enrollment period it does not appear to have been a major factor in significantly reducing the number of uninsured Americans . If you have further questions or require health insurance advice and assistance please click on the `` contact me '' button and I will be happy to help .
No , you do not need to enroll if you are covered by medicare or medicaid , or if you are covered by a policy offered through your employer or spouses employer . The idea is to reduce the number of uninsured people who were previously denied coverage , or did n't have affordable coverage available . That said , if you do n't have it , then there are penalties in place that will affect those that chose to ignore the March 31st enrollment deadline . If you have further questions , please do n't hesitate to hit the ` contact me ' link . Thanks for asking !
Obamacare is working well in California . Obamacare was intended to help Americans who could not previously afford health insurance get insured . People with bad health -LRB- heart disease , obesity , cancer -RRB- often were denied coverage or charged a very high premium . Now these folks are charged the same rate as everyone else . People with low income were often priced out of the insurance market as well . It was not reasonable to expect a person making $ 25,000 a year to spend 15 % of their income on health insurance . Under ObamaCare people making under $ 48,000 per year are eligible for premium assistance . WEBSITELINK - In this video I show you how a 30 year old earning $ 25,000 per year can get a policy for just $ 18 per month .
This debate has been going on for the last century . In theory , how could anyone be opposed to everyone having health insurance ? And , in theory , if everyone was in the insurance risk pool this would be the best way to spread health care costs equally . By the same token , how could anyone be opposed to everyone having good and ample food & water , and everyone needs housing , and everyone needs utilities for their housing , and everyone needs transportation and there is a long list of other needs that we all have . The real question is can a society afford universal health insurance and thus universal health care in the sense that most Americans have become accustomed to getting it ? When you start looking at the economics of health care this becomes much more problematic . Health care is different from most services we consume in that it creates its own growing demand . Who does n't want to live longer , and live healthier during that longer life ? And , as you have probably noticed , we have a continually growing list of parts we can replace , once deadly illnesses we can now manage or cure , and treatments that just improve your `` quality of life '' . All this comes with a price tag and the price just keeps going up . I was born in 1957 for a cost of $ 400 , my son was born in 1987 for a cost of $ 4000 , and today a normal childbirth is easily $ 8000 + . As best as I can tell , babies are born the same way today as they were in 1957 but the cost has far outpaced general inflation levels in the economy as a whole over that time period . The painful reality is that providing universal healthcare in a modern society -LRB- e , g , - North America , Europe -RRB- has not been accomplished without rationing of healthcare services -LRB- however it might be disguised -RRB- . For instance , we have more MRI scanners in Memphis , TN than in all of Canada -LRB- a nation often cited as an example of where universal health insurance is a success -RRB- . Tests that get ordered and conducted on the same day here can have waiting times of months up there . There really is no definitive answer to your question . But it does highlight the gap between theory and reality when trying to address providing health insurance to a population .
Can everyone get health insurance ? Well , soon we will find out in 2014 . The quesiton will be can we afford it ? Prior to Obamacare , health insurance was the domain of states to set the rules for insurance . Some states have very good consumer oriented insurance laws and others really do n't . I live in a state where anybody who wants health insurance can get it , granted you still have to pay for it , but you can get coverage . My state actually adopted the Clinton Plan and fixed it to where it works and works well . Obamacare will have a lesser impact in my state than others , because we already were doing many of the things in Obamacare .
That is a great question ! While technically it is not illegal to not have health insurance , the Affordable Care Act -LRB- Obamacare -RRB- does impose a penalty for not having it . The longer you go uninsured , the bigger the fine . The idea behind having insurance is to lower costs for everyone . When someone without insurance goes to the doctor , they get treated anyway . The doctor just adds that cost onto everyone else 's bill in the form of higher charges . Also , the more healthy people added to the insurance pool , the lower the costs for everyone . When only sick people buy insurance , the costs are much higher . I hope that helps , thanks for asking !
In an aggregate sense , Yes . The basic costs of health care -LRB- doctor & hospital services , prescription drugs , etc. -RRB- and our population 's consumption of health care services have been steadily increasing for decades . Health insurance costs are merely a reflection of these underlying factors . When one drills down to a specific company 's or a specific individual 's history with their health insurance premiums then you will find substantial variations in individual results . A knowledgeable and experienced health insurance broker/consultant can often manage their client 's benefits costs in ways that `` beat the market '' just like there always are some financial experts who outperform their peers in the stock market . The vast majority of my small business clients for instance have premium costs and benefit levels in 2014 that are not radical departures from their costs of a few to several years ago or , at the worst , they know that they have the best possible base cost level currently available to them in their marketplaces . This requires constant oversight of changing marketplace conditions , switching insurance carriers to take advantage of whichever carrier has the best value proposition at that particular time , and some fine tuning of benefit plan designs and funding approaches over a period of years to accomplish these results . But , it can be done because I have done it . The implementation of the new requirements of ObamaCare have upset the long established rules for the health insurance marketplace and are having a profound impact on health insurance plan designs and costs . ObamaCare addressed many access issues to health insurance coverage -LRB- guaranteed issue of policies , no pre-existing conditions , etc. -RRB- but really does nothing to reduce either healthcare costs or consumption . In fact , many can argue that ObamaCare is helping to increase both costs and consumption which will translate into higher health insurance costs . Certainly ObamaCare is the most profound change in our nation 's health insurance system in most people 's lifetimes and it will make the years ahead much more challenging for both individuals and businesses when it comes to managing their health insurance & health care costs . The guidance of an experienced health insurance expert who is staying on top of the rapid changes being prompted by ObamaCare is now more important than ever to both the individual and business health insurance consumer . If I can be of assistance in guiding you through these uncharted waters please feel free to contact me so I can put my 30 years of experience to work for you .
What does obamacare mean for nurses ? From an health insurance point of view . the same for just about everyone . Note : my opinion here . Professionally , obamacare will mean a much harder job as I think hospitals will cut staff and pay . There will not be a bonanza of new jobs or money with Obamacare as the only way to get it to work is reduce costs and there will be downward pressure .
The definition of `` good '' varies from person to person and business to business . However , here are some of the aspects of a health insurance policy I advise my clients to be aware of and comfortable with : 1 -RRB- Are the doctors , hospitals and pharmacies you want to use in-network providers with the health insurance plan you are considering ? 2 -RRB- What would your coverage be -LRB- if any -RRB- if you want to use a health care provider who is not an in-network provider with the health insurance plan you are considering ? 3 -RRB- What is the pharmacy benefit under the health plan you are considering ? And , if you have specific prescription drug needs are they covered under the health insurance plan 's prescription formulary and to what extent are they covered -LRB- copays , co-insurance , deductible & co-insurance -RRB- ? 4 -RRB- Does the health insurance plan allow its members to go directly to specialists such as cardiologists or does it require that you are referred to a specialist by your primary care physician first ? 5 -RRB- If you travel regularly outside of your home area -LRB- to other states or outside the USA -RRB- does the health plan provide for coverage outside of your home service area in the event you need non-emergency care ? 6 -RRB- Is the health insurance company you are considering a well established national or regional health insurance carrier with strong finances or is it one of the new , experimental Co-Op health plans recently established under the provisions of ObamaCare ? 7 -RRB- Does the overall value proposition of the health insurance plan you are considering meet your current and anticipated needs ? In other words , does its monthly premium , coverage levels and provider network really work for you .
The new health care legislation requires everyone to obtain health insurance , but not everyone will pay for health insurance . Starting in 2014 the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act or Obamacare requires every American to have health care . You may not have to pay for health care in you economically demonstrate you can not pay by means testing . If you elect not to pay for health care , and by means testing can pay , youll be assessed a penalty at the time of filing your taxes .
This is a very pertinent question in the era of ObamaCare . As the term `` portability '' implies , this is the ability for a person to own and take their health insurance coverage with them regardless of their employment circumstances . The concern about portability of health insurance coverage flows from the history in our nation where for many decades most working Americans received their health insurance coverage through their employer . In an era where many people would work for the same company for most , if not all , of their working life , there was little concern about losing access to health insurance coverage . As our global economy and the American workforce have evolved over the last generation and it is now common for a person to work for multiple companies over the course of their working lives and having your health insurance tied to your place of employment has become more problematic for some people and become a social , business and political issue . A common example is the person who works for a company that provides health insurance benefits to its employees and this person has a pre-existing health condition like diabetes or has a covered dependent with a chronic health problem requiring expensive ongoing care that is covered by their current employer 's health plan . One day this employee may be presented with a job opportunity with another company that offers them a promotion and an increase in pay that would further their career but this prospective new employer does not offer health insurance to its employees . Losing their current employer 's health coverage might have left this person or their dependents uninsurable or faced with such high out-of-pocket expenses for individual health insurance and out-of-pocket expenses that these factors would negate the new job opportunity being offered this person . Similar examples can be given for the person who wants to leave and start their own business , medical cost issues have made it difficult , if not impossible , for some people to pursue such opportunities . This is what is referred to as `` Job Lock '' . One of the positive aspects of ObamaCare is that with its guaranteed issue and no pre-existing conditions exclusions or coverage waiting period requirements , people are guaranteed access to individual or small group health insurance . Technically , this does break the chains of `` job lock '' for such persons . Please note though , that I stressed the changes made by ObamaCare have removed barriers to access to health insurance . Depending upon the income level of the person , it -LRB- ObamaCare -RRB- may or may not remove the cost barriers associated with getting health insurance due to the resulting increases in health insurance rates we have seen and are seeing . But , in the ideal scenario , these new provisions of the health law provide persons with the security of owning their own health insurance coverage that is not tied to their place of employment thus eliminating concerns about `` job lock '' and freeing them to pursue other professional or personal goals that they might not have otherwise been able to address .
That is a great question ! As a humanitarian answer , I 'd tell you that everyone needs healthcare to provide relief and treatment from illness and injury . Christ tells us that we are to `` love each other as we love ourselves '' , and you 'd want treatment if you were suffering , would n't you ? Financially , I 'd say that everyone needs health insurance because those that do n't increase the costs for those of us that do . Because they are not shouldering any part of the care that is provided , that cost is passed on to us in the form of higher priced services and goods . By requiring everyone to have health insurance , the Affordable Care Act -LRB- Obamacare -RRB- has -LRB- along with other measures in the bill -RRB- slowed the growth of health care costs from double digit yearly increases to 4 % last year . That is reason enough in my book ! Thanks for asking !
I will start with conceding that eliminating the issue of people being unable to get health insurance due to pre-existing conditions and making coverage of maternity mandatory are essentially good things that corrected issues which were increasingly problematic for our society . The stated goals of Obamacare were to eliminate people being uninsured and to reduce the cost of health care and thus lower the cost of health insurance while simultaneously increasing the quality of care . By May of 2014 we can now begin to look back and factually state that ObamaCare has failed to accomplish any of these goals in any meaningful way . Four years of efforts and billions of dollars have resulted in less than a 4 % decrease in the number of uninsured Americans , still leaving 30 + million uninsured . Healthcare costs have continued to rise and utilization rates have increased by 7.1 % in the first quarter of 2014 so we now have both higher unit costs and increased per capita consumption of health care services . This will translate into higher premium costs in 2015 . Changes in health plan benefit designs and provider networks necessitated by the need to comply with the requirements of the Affordable Care Act have some chronically ill citizens facing higher out of pocket expenses for their health care and losing access to their established physician and hospital relationships and disruption in their courses of treatment and access to certain prescriptions . As a transitional product , the government created a program called the Pre-Existing Conditions Insurance Plan -LRB- PCIP -RRB- . This plan provided comprehensive , subsidized major medical coverage to persons who were uninsurable due to pre-existing conditions . There was no underwriting , you just had to prove you were uninsurable and you were in . The benefits were consistent with if not superior to what many Americans had through their private individual health insurance or what they received through their jobs . If the objective was to provide quality , affordable health insurance for the uninsurable then properly funding and continuing this program would have been much more cost effective and less disruptive to society in general than the results we have seen to date from ObamaCare . Books have been written and will be written on the failures and shortcomings of the Affordable Care Act and they are too numerous to go into here . Of course , there are those who now have `` affordable '' health insurance because they are receiving subsidies . In practical economic terms though , how effective is any system that requires massive subsidization in order to function ? such an approach introduces inefficiencies from the bureaucracy required to administer it and is largely a transfer of wealth mechanism . Indeed , it creates a whole new set of problems for those too `` rich '' to qualify for subsidies but who now struggle or find themselves unable to afford the much higher premium costs of Obamacare compliant health plans . We take from the middle and upper middle class to subsidize the lower middle class and poor . All in a new system that the very politicians who created it have made sure that they and their families do not have to participate in . These are just some of the things that are wrong with Obamacare .
Obviously that will depend upon who the next President is . Your question probably assumes a Republican President being elected and the current Republican control of the House and Senate continuing after the 2016 elections . A possible outcome that is a distinct possibility . Now , ask yourself , `` How many Federal laws have I seen totally repealed in my lifetime ? '' I think most people would be hard pressed to name any and this is because it is relatively rare . A new entitlement system that already has several million people involved in it has been created as has a new bureaucracy to administer it . These are hard to end . The next President will inherit these `` facts on the ground '' when they take office regardless of their political persuasion . Even a Republican seen as having a clear electoral mandate to end Obamacare will be faced with the daunting political , social and , unfortunately , racial challenges that would be associated with unwinding such an enormous program . A type of political courage that has not been demonstrated in Washington in quite some time would be required to push through a total repeal . And , then there are the uncomfortable questions that have to be faced . 1 -RRB- Do we truly want to go back to the way things were in health insurance before ObamaCare ? -LRB- for example , should pre-existing condition exclusions be allowed to return ? -RRB- and , 2 -RRB- If not , what would we keep and what would we remove from ObamaCare to `` fix '' it ? This is purely opinion , but , looking at the practical challenges involved and the fact that ObamaCare is already injected into the health insurance/healthcare system now , the path of least resistance will be the `` Fix It '' route . Whether it was a President Paul or Cruz -LRB- Trump might be another case altogether -RRB- I really ca n't see them announcing on TV that everyone 's subsidies were being ended immediately and that they would be seeing their health insurance rates increase by hundreds of dollars per month and `` good luck '' . It might not be political suicide but it would be one heck of a headache . Some sort of transitional approach coupled with new solutions would have to be devised to minimize further disruptions in people 's lives and to the healthcare/health care financing industries . So , as much as we may wish that ObamaCare had never arrived , it has . Being realistic , whether it is fixing it , replacing it or totally undoing it , none of those things will happen immediately and the most likely scenario is one where some aspects of the law are retained and others are jettisoned or modified over time . This means that the months and years ahead are almost guaranteed to be as chaotic and subject to rapid and repeated change as what we have experienced during the previous five years . Answer provided by Marlin McKelvy , Chartered Benefits Consultant and president of Consumer Directed Benefit Solutions insurance agency with over 30 years of employee benefits experience serving the insurance needs of businesses and individuals in Tennessee , Arkansas and Mississippi .
In our society everyone should have health insurance to some degree . But after January I , 2014 you must have health coverage or pay a penalty . Millions of Americans will pay nothing based on means testing . Some Americans will pay little based on allowable credits under Obamacare . In 2014 , we will all have coverage , but not all will have to pay for it .
If your employer pays 100 % of the employee cost of their group health insurance plan -LRB- very rare these days -RRB- then you will be enrolled in your employer 's health plan . That does n't mean you have to use it or that you could n't be covered as a dependent on your spouse 's health plan . If an employee contribution is required under your employer 's plan -LRB- extremely common these days -RRB- then you are free to `` waive participation '' -LRB- i.e. - elect not to be covered -RRB- in your employer 's plan and can be covered under your spouse 's plan . Generally , unless there is a significant benefit difference involved between the two plans , -LRB- and I 'm assuming it 's just you and your spouse and there are no children involved -RRB- it would probably be less expensive for each of you to be covered as Employee Only under your respective employer 's health plans . Another important note is that one of the quirks of the Affordable Care Act -LRB- ObamaCare -RRB- is that spouses were n't defined as dependents -LRB- no reason has ever been given for this -RRB- . This has led a few employers to not offer coverage to spouses at all , but this is still very rare . What is becoming increasingly common though is an employer policy that penalizes spouses who elect to be covered under their spouse 's employer 's plan when that spouse has health insurance available at their place of employment . Usually a higher monthly premium payment is assessed for such a spouse as opposed to a spouse who does not have other health insurance available . You 'll want to make sure your spouse 's employer does n't have such a personnel policy in place before you opt to be covered under your spouse 's health plan .
No , not everyone need to get health insurance with Obamacare . Law is that everyone have to have healthinsurance or pay penalty , but health insurance does not have to be through Obamacare . For example : It can be employer provided or individually purchased . It comes down to individual choice , needs , and preference .
Historically pregnant women could not obtain health insurance when individual health insurance was medically underwritten . Although Obamacare , as it is commonly known as , has many issues and problems , individuals can now obtain guarantee issue health insurance without any issues about pregnancy or pre-existing conditions . During open enrollment which begins again in November 2014 for January 2015 effective dates everyone that wants to apply for health insurance will be approved . If you have a qualifying life event under the IRS code you will be able to purchase health insurance within 60 days of the qualifying event .
The announced intention of Obamacare was to get everyone who was not already insured through an individual , group or government health program to enroll in health insurance coverage . Will you be jailed for not having health insurance ? No . You will , however , be subject to a tax -LRB- as the Supreme Court defined it -RRB- / penalty -LRB- as the administration prefers to refer to it -RRB- for not having health insurance coverage that meets the requirements of the law . In practical terms the tax penalty is minimal -LRB- $ 95 or 1 % of modified adjusted gross income in the first year -RRB- and there are now a number of loosely defined `` hardship '' exemptions that a person can claim to avoid the penalty . Plus , the IRS can only withhold the tax penalty from an income tax refund , it can not be charged as an additional tax per se and you ca n't have your bank account or wages garnisheed by the IRS to collect the tax penalty . This begs the question as to just how effective a mechanism the tax penalty will be in motivating people to purchase health insurance . Certainly , based upon the preliminary results of the recently closed open enrollment period it does not appear to have been a major factor in significantly reducing the number of uninsured Americans . If you have further questions or require health insurance advice and assistance please click on the `` contact me '' button and I will be happy to help .
end question
start question
long-term-care-insurance
At What Age Should You Consider Long Term Care Insurance ?
Most people start considering Long Term Care Insurance at about age 50 and actually purchase it at about age 60 . The younger you are , the more likely you will be to qualify for the policy . Advancements in medicine are wonderful for showing us what is wrong with us and how to prevent it from getting worse . But those same advancements can turn up a lot of health conditions that got overlooked , in the past , when applying for long term care insurance . Applying at a younger age gives you a much better chance of being approved .
There are a couple of ways to purchase long term care insurance -LRB- LTCi -RRB- , early on when youre healthy . But others say you should start seriously considering LTCi no later than age 50 . The LTCi market of insurance companies has decreased considerably . There are about six real players left in the brokerage community . The price tag generally drives the LTCi sales , but policy definitions should be the deciding factor when premiums are relatively equal .
The best age to consider long term care insurance will be different for every person . Your budget , financial and health conditions , and product availability will all play a role . There are still a handful of companies that offer very competitive products . Of course , buying coverage at a younger age will be less expensive , if you can incorporate the purchase into your overall financial strategy . An ideal age ? Perhaps in the 44-54 range . A full-time broker or financial planner is the person that will give you the best guidance .
A better question would be `` Who Should n't Buy Long-term Care Insurance '' ? Thats simpler to answer . The following people should NOT buy long term care insurance : 1 . Those that can not afford the premium on even a base policy . 2 . Those that have virtually no assets to pass on to the next generationand will need every available dollar saved for retirement . 3 . Those that will have to work until they die for lack of savings and insufficient Social Security payments or private pension . 4 . Those that can not medically qualify . 5 . Those that are already unable to perform regular daily activities of living without assistance . People in those conditions may qualify for the payment of long-term care through Medicaid -LRB- MediCal in California -RRB- if they come to a point in their life where they need care and ca n't afford it . If the above conditions describe you in any way , you should be sitting down with your adult children or closest relatives and coming up with a plan of action should you be unable to take care of yourself . Everyone else should consider buying some long-term care insurance through an agent or agency that either specializes or has a specialist that is experienced in handling long-term care insurance casework . Having some amount of insurance is better than having none . When one qualifies to receive payments from the insurance company for long-term care , they are usually near the end of their life . The average long-term care claim is approximately 2 - 2.5 years . For those that need care longer than that , virtually all but the most unusual claims are paid out after 5 years . Families with a history of late-life mental illness -LRB- dementia or Alzheimers -RRB- should consider buying a larger pool of money than others , if they can afford it . It is in the best interest of the adult children to help out with long-term care premium payments if the elderly parents can not afford to pay all of the costs . Long-term care is an emotional , psychological , sociological , and family problem as much as it is financial . For the dignity of those who need care and the people or person most likely to be the caregiver , there needs to be a plan of action determined and long-term care insurance should be a part of that plan if it can be afforded and the person is medically qualified . Long-term care insurance is best purchased when young . Premiums can and will go up during the life of the policy if all the bells and whistles are included in the design of the coverage . But , those increases will seem like pocket-change if one needs long-term care . $ 80,000 per year is not unusual for facility care today . 24/7 home care can exceed $ 20,000 per month ! With family help , home care costs can be kept down . But , if facility care is required , there 's not much that can be done about avoiding high costs . Long-term care costs vary by place . The left - and right-hand coasts are the most expensive . Relocation may be necessary to get affordable care in a quality facility .
Maybe one should not get long-term care insurance . Let 's start there . If an individual or a family has a sizeable estate that either is liquid or can be liquidated and be made readily available to pay for the cost of long-term care , maybe long-term care is n't needed . If , on the other extreme , you have a very small estate comprised of no real estate and very little personal property of any worth and will rely almost entirely on Social Security in retirement , you ca n't afford long-term care premiums , now or in the future . You will have to have a plan , however , in case you do need long-term care . A family discussion around the topic should be scheduled so that those that might become either temporary or permanent caregivers are fully apprised of the responsibilities and sacrifices that may have to be made . Medicaid qualification should be fully investigated and the benefits and limitations understood . People buy long-term care for roughly the same reason they buy life insurance . One buys life insurance because they care about the financial security of those that are left behind . One buys long-term care insurancebecause they care about those that might have to take care of them if they ca n't take care of themselves . Long-term care costs are not covered by conventional health insurance , Medicare , and most Medicare supplement insurance . They can be very expensive , especially ifthe elderly person lives a long-period of time in a state of incapacity . Caregivers will be spouses and adult children are likely to be caregivers whether one owns long-term care insurance or not . Long-term care insurance is for caregivers . It gives them choices about the quality of care that can be afforded and whether they can be relieved of some of the responsibility for caregiving . Many elderly spouses of those that ca n't take care of themselves become disabled themselves because of the emotional and psychological energy expended in caregiving . Adult children sometimes get caught in a conflict over eldercare and parenting growing children . Long-term care insurance provides income-tax-free money to hire trained individuals to care for loved ones . Ultimately , it allows the insured to die with dignity and peace . Getting back to the wealthy that do n't need to buy long-term care insurance , guess what ? Many wealthy couples and individuals do . They understand leverage : paying smaller dollars now for larger dollars later , if needed . They also understand that in many situations , premiums for long-term care may be tax-deductible . What about the middle class ? They would have to design their coverage to help offset the cost of long-term care . No matter how much one spends , no long-term care insurance policy can guarantee to cover all possible long-term care expenses . But , the average claim is about 24 - 26 months . Buying a long-term care policy with a pool of money sufficient to cover at least part of those costs would be prudent . Is buying a basic plan for long-term care that would pay only half of one 's long-term care costs be a bad deal ? I do n't think anyone that 's paying $ 400/day for facility care and being reimbursed for $ 200/day would find that of no value .
Short answer : About 8 % Long answer : It 's hard to say exactly how many people own some type of policy that covers paying the costs of long term care - should one qualify for it - because there are many types of insurance policies that are not just `` stand-alone '' long-term care policies , but plans of insurance that include being able to use a percentage of other plan benefits for paying long-term care costs :1 . Stand-alone long-term care insurance covers only long-term care costs . It has no cash value . When a policy owner dies , coverage either lapses or stops paying benefits . It is not transferable . It can not be bought or sold on a secondary market . This type of long-term care insurance is sometimes referred to as `` traditional '' long-term care insurance , as well . It is the type of coverage that is most often associated with the `` percentage of Americans that own their own long-term care insurance '' .2 . Hybrid long-term care contracts consist of having long-term coverage and a life insurance policy that guarantees to at least return the full premium paid into the policy to the insured 's designated beneficiary . Usually , these are single-premium contracts , but some have options to also pay over a specified period of time , such as 5 - or 10-years .3 . Linked life + long-term care policies are basically a traditional permanent life insurance contract -LRB- Whole Life or Universal Life , including the Variable or Indexed type -RRB- . If a person qualifies for long-term care and they have the long-term care rider on their life policy , they may apply to the insurance company to advance or accelerate the face value of the policy -LRB- death benefit -RRB- to pay for the costs of care . There are various limitations on how much can be advanced at a time . If the face value of the life contract is completely advanced for long-term care , there is usually a residual death benefit of $ 5,000 - $ 10,000.4 . The latest addition to life insurance product lines are policies offering `` living benefits '' , one of which is very similar to the linked-life policy . In fact , the only difference is that a medical professional has to state in writing that the insured is not likely to recover from the condition that qualifies for long-term care benefits . -LRB- True long-term care insurance does not require that . -RRB- This type of living benefit is most often referred to as `` chronic care '' or `` extended care '' . Annuities may also have special considerations for paying out portions of the account value for long-term care costs.The point is , people who own life insurance or annuity contracts with long-term care accommodations are not typically included in with the 8 % that own traditional long-term care . So , the real percentage of those that have made some type of insurance purchase to offset long-term care costs is greater than 8 % . I doubt , however , that the total percentage of Americans that own any of the above-described types of policies would exceed 20 % at this time .
What age is considered young for long term care insurance ? When you turn age 50 , youll more than likely receive an invitation to join AARP . Most advisers start addressing long term care needs at age 50 as part of their retirement strategy for their clients . But age 60 seems to be the age where long term care becomes a serious consideration . But if your family has a predisposition to disease or a geriatric history of nursing home care , you may not want to wait until age 50 . When youre young and healthy , long term care insurance is relatively inexpensive . If your family fits this profile , you should investigate long term care even if youre age 40 .
Long Term Health Care Insurance is called , simply , Long Term Care Insurance . It covers the cost of living in a nursing home , assisted living home , or receiving other types of services when the insured person is unable to take care of themselves . Among those who should buy Long Term Care Insurance are those who have many assets and feel strongly that they do not want their assets to go toward paying long term care expenses . People who want to have many choices in how and where they are cared for , should they be unable to care for themselves , are also people who would benefit from Long Term Care insurance , if they can afford it . Finally , persons whose families want the security of knowing that their parents will not rely on them for long term care , if needed , are those who should considering buying Long Term Care insurance .
Roughly sixty percent of Americans will require long term care services sometime during their lifetime . This is not exclusively a problem for the elderly as younger people can require this type of care some times . This level of care includes a range of services including skilled and custodial care that is provided over a long period of time . These requirements come from chronic sickness or injury , cognitive impairment and physical disability . Hospitals provide acute care . Medical care given over a long period of time for chronic conditions is where the need for long term care arises . Sometimes custodial care is required because the patient has lost the ability to do one of the recognized activities of daily living or instrumental activities of daily living . Most of the long term care given in the US is given by family members . However , there are many situations where family members can not provide necessary care . Professional and non-professionals can provide aid and assistance to these people . This long term care can be given in the home of the patient or in a variety of institutional settings . Long term care can be given in day-care facilities , nursing homes , and assisted living facilities . On average men need more than two years of long term care while women need almost four years on average ? The leading causes for patients requiring long term care are dementia , arthritis , cancer , stroke and nervous conditions . Caring for a patient in a home setting can cost up to $ 150,000 per year . The cost for a nursing home bed is about $ 75,000 per year -LRB- this varies by location . -RRB- There are basically four ways to finance long term care . The family can take the expense out of their own pocket , they can look to government programs -LRB- if they qualify , -RRB- they can use long term care insurance or they can rely upon charity . For a variety of reasons long term care insurance has provided a solution for many people . LTC insurance provides predictability for an otherwise unpredictable risk . It has become such popular coverage and policyholders have been so reluctant to drop their coverage that the benefits have started exceeding the premiums . It is quite popular among wealthy policyholders . Many companies that offered coverage have withdrawn and others have been forced to raise their premiums . This adjustment seems to be complete now . There are various forms of LTC coverage . Policies different widely . It is rather difficult to compare but is worth the effort . When deciding on a policy the first thing to establish is the amount of coverage you want and the period of time you want coverage . The second consideration is how soon after the start of long term care will you want the policy to start paying . This waiting period is computed in several ways so care must be exercised to make sure you are making a fair comparison . Not all policies use the same events to trigger benefits so care should be taken in this area as well . This can be a very technical area so compare your situation with the policy requirements . How a policy pays out will vary according to the policy . Some policies provide for reimbursement of expenses , others use an indemnity form which pays up to a specific limit of expenses incurred on each specific day , and some are on a cash model which pays a maximum benefit regardless of the actual cost of the care that is being given . Long term care insurance is a way to protect assets . The alternatives deplete assets with the government programs requiring a person to be in poverty .
Whether long-term care insurance should be `` mandated '' requires an associated question : `` Mandated by whom ? '' Also , any question that includes the word `` should '' involves a question of values and may fall into a political category of some kind.The question , however , is a good one . We have a looming crisis that has only just begun . Millions of people will soon be at the age of possibly needing extended care before they pass away . The current `` baby boom '' demographic has hit retirement age and is about 20-30 years from cresting at an age that many may need care before dying . Unless there are many medical advances , care accommodations , and/or technological improvements for elder care , hundreds of thousands of people in their 70s , 80s , and 90s and beyond will need assistance in successfully performing the activities of day-to-day life , such as feeding oneself , getting from one place to another , dressing , bathing , etc.Who is going to provide that care ? First , it will be family -LRB- spouse and/or adult children , if available -RRB- , but beyond that , there is only Medicaid -LRB- Medical in CA -RRB- to provide care services . The problem is that one must become `` indigent '' to qualify for government aid , and one must be admitted to an approved facility to receive care . -LRB- Medicare currently only provides hospital , recovery , and skilled nursing care for a maximum period of 100 days . A hospital stay for a minimum of three days is required to qualify in most cases . -RRB- If the questioner is asking should the government be mandated to provide long-term care , then this is entirely a political question . The government , ultimately , is the tax-payer . Congress is the body of our government that legislates laws.If the questioner is asking should everyone be mandated to purchase their own long-term care coverage , the answer is probably `` no '' . Even though that might seem like a solution , the cost of privately-owned long-term care is currently far beyond the reach of many Americans . Some could not even afford the premiums of a base policy which would n't come close to paying what long-term care might end up costing.A commission formed by Congress is currently meeting to debate and hear testimony on the question of how we , as a society , will handle those that have no family or other support group , do not own long-term care insurance , and are `` taking too long to die '' . This makes the question a moral one , and one that deserves an answer so that people may die with dignity .
70 % of people who are 65 years old will need to use some type of long term care in their lifetime . And , as they age the likelihood of needing long term care will increase . The cost for this care is very expensive and it is not covered by conventional health insurance - commercial carriers or Medicare . This is because our health care system is geared to acute care not long term care . According to the 2015 Genworth survey the national average cost for a semi-private room in a nursing home is about $ 80,000 . More , for a private room . Home Health care costs average $ 20/hour . These expense arise when most people are living on a fixed income with little room for added expenses . Especially , unplanned ones . Baby boomers have not been great at planning for retirement . One year of long term care can ruin someone 's retirement plans . This is what happens in many cases ; families deplete their assets and end up qualifying for Medicaid -LRB- aka Welfare -RRB- to pay for long term care expenses . The question people need to ask themselves is when the need for long term care arises , will they have the money to pay for this care ? This is what long term care insurance can do for them . Insurance is the only financial vehicle that promises a specific amount of money at a point in time . There is no other . Even though this can be an expensive premium , depending on the age at which the policy is purchased , compared to the benefits paid , it is worth the outlay for most people . Not only because it will help pay the bills . Long term care insurance policies offer additional benefits that most people are unaware of . Most importantly , all carriers offer optional care management to assist with the difficult decisions about care , choosing facilities and offering discounts on major providers of care . Many times families need someone to discuss options with who is educated about all the options available and is n't emotionally involved with their situation . This is where the care manager can be of tremendous help and the family does not have to go to the expense of hiring a geriatric care manager . The policies will also pay for modifications to be made to the home to keep the person at home rather than moving them to a nursing home .
Not everyone needs long term care insurance . LTCI is not for persons who are struggling to meet their day to day living expenses , rent an apartment , and have little savings and no investments . If such a person needed to go to a nursing home , Medicaid will almost immediately start picking up their tab and they will be fine . Long term care insurance is for those who have substantial assets or income that they do n't want to `` lose '' by paying high long term care costs . Some people are OK with their savings going to long term care expenses , if needed . They figure that is why they saved . Others feel strongly that they want to pass that wealth to heirs to continue a business , care for a disabled adult child , or help grandchildren go to college , among a myriad of other reasons . It is this latter segment of the population that `` needs '' long term care insurance , especially if they are not so very wealthy that paying nursing home expenses for many years would simply dent their resources , rather than deplete them . If they can afford long term care insurance , but would not be able to to pay for long term care services , people who are adamant about choosing the type of care they receive , or persons who are setting up a plan so that their children do n't have to worry about it , also could use long term care insurance . As long as Medicaid is around , no one absolutely needs long term care insurance . But for all the reasons above , many people would consider it a need if they looked at it realistically .
Asset Based Long Term Care provides a unique solution to providing for the expense of long term care while at the same time providing other benefits . Generally , it is provided with a base of life insurance or an annuity . One of the problems with traditional Long Term Care Insurance is affordability . Also the underwriting is very strict . Because Asset Based Long Term Care is underwritten much like a life insurance policy , it is usually easier to qualify . Many traditional Long Term Care policies are use it or lose it , although many policies do have return of premium provisions . With Asset Based Long Term care written with a life insurance chassis , if you do not use the long term care provision , you beneficiaries will receive the death benefit , as in a traditional life insurance policy . If the plan is Annuity based , you receive the interest and tax advantages of an annuity , but the flexibility of utilizing the funds for long term care should you need it . While most of these hybrid products are not as comprehensive as traditional long term care they can be a great alternative depending on the goals and personal situation of the client .
Most advisers begin addressing long term care insurance to their clients around age 50 . But the purchasing trend of long term care appears to be around age 60 . However , if youre family has a predisposition to disease , chronic hospitalization or nursing home confinement when theyre old , you may want to consider long term care insurance when youre young and healthy . You should purchase long term care for your retirement years . The statistics are significant that youll experience a need for assisted living or perhaps nursing home confinement . The average married couple spends $ 250,000 on medical and extended care during their retirement years . Securing long term care is important , especially when youre healthy and heading into your late fifties , early sixties .
What 's the best age to buy Long Term Care Insurance ? There are many opinions as to the answer for that question , offered by professionals in the insurance field and in by professionals in the field of issues related to aging . As someone who has a background in both fields , I think the best age to purchase Long Term Care Insurance is by age 60 . Rates are lower and you are less likely to have a medical condition to disqualify you than if you wait longer than that . Some cite statistics that over 40 % of Long Term Care is provided to persons under age 65 , so you should purchase LTC coverage at a much younger age . But many of the younger persons in extended care facilities have mental illness or other lifelong conditions that would not have qualified them for LTC insurance in the first place . It is certainly true that the younger you are , the lower the rates , but you do have to offset the extra years for which you will be making those payments . More important than that , I believe , is getting the policy while you still qualify . If you see some health conditions sneaking up on you at age 40 that could be trouble at age 60 , get your Long Term Care coverage while you can .
If you have family history that has reoccurring nursing home care or home care assistance , you may need long term care insurance . If you play the morbidity odds of geriatric living , youll need long term care insurance . If you generated extended care expenses that you can not financially cover , you need long term care insurance . If you play the morbidity odds of geriatric living , youll need long term care insurance . If you generated extended care expenses that you can not financially cover , you need long term care insurance . A male and a female age 60 , nonsmoker and in good health with a full coverage and inflation rider from a quality long term care insurance company will pay around $ 300 a month for the max coverage .
Actually , long term disability insurance and long term care insurance are not the same type of policy nor do they cover the same things . Disability insurance is to replace a percentage of your income when you have an illness or injury so severe you can no longer work . Long term care insurance is primarily for your aging years to cover home health , assisted living and nursing homes when you are no longer able to take care of yourself . Long term disability insurance should be purchased at a young age as soon as you go to work earning a wage . Long term care insurance should be purchased between your late 50s or early 60s .
The bottom-line response to this question is `` the long-term care insurance that is in force when you are no longer able to take care of 2 of 6 activities of daily living or are diagnosed with an organic cognitive impairment like Alzheimer 's disease . '' However , the question is an important one and deserves elaboration.The consumer ultimately has to decide what the best long-term care insurance is for them . That requires a sometimes annoying learning curve to find out how the policy works , what the benefits , features , and riders are , and whether one can afford to purchase any kind of long-term care insurance at all.Long-term care insurance is complicated because the issue it addresses is complicated . The risk is that one has about a 1 in 6 chance of needing the help of someone else to bathe , dress , get to a restroom -LRB- in time -RRB- , move from one place to another , be able to eat and/or drink food sufficient for one 's well-being , take Rx medication in the proper dosage at the proper time among other basic daily activities over an extended period of time . These `` ADLs '' or , activities of daily living , are formally defined in a long-term care insurance policy.Clearly , there is a lot of subjective judgment regarding these ADLs and people are often skeptical about who will have the ultimate decision for eligibility to go on claim . Therefore , obtain a `` specimen policy '' from your agent and read it over carefully because that is what you are considering buying - not glossy marketing materials , not agent summaries and simplifications , and certainly not the illustration that might be initially provided for discussion purposes . The insurance contract is a legal document and constitutes the promise of the carrier to the policyowner . If you do n't understand how it works , and you do n't get satisfactory and intelligible explanations from an insurance professional - either the agent , or a carrier representative at the insurance company 's home office - do n't buy it . Here are some general guidelines of the best long-term care policy as represented by contract language : 1 . The definitions section is easy to understand and written in language that does not use technical jargon ; 2 . The section on claims clearly indicates how one can receive benefits3 . There are specifically stated services that the carrier provides at the time of claim to help the insured find qualified and/or skilled nurses for home care and quality-rated facilities should full 24/7 care be needed . This section of the document must include the words `` care coordinator '' and `` plan of care '' .4 . Customer service contact information is prominently displayed in bold type in a font large enough to be easily read by the elderly and is found in several locations in the policy .5 . Contract language allows for the possibility of medical and technical advances in care and medicine for coverage , even though it does not now exist or is not definable at this time .6 . Exclusions are concise and easily understood.The best long-term care insurance is the kind that you understand . It takes a while to figure it out , but this type of insurance could be the difference in your dying alone with no -LRB- or poor -RRB- care while still alive , or dying with dignity with quality care from people that know what they are doing and have the certification and skills to treat you . Take the time and make the effort to be an informed applicant .
You need long term care insurance when : 1 -RRB- You have substantial assets you want to protect , and insufficient income to pay for your own long term care expenses without depleting them ; 2 -RRB- You have enough income to comfortably pay for long term care insurance premiums and want to provide peace of mind for you and your family for your future ; 3 -RRB- You want to live in a specific place to receive your care and may not be able to do so without being able to pay privately -LRB- with the funds that long term care insurance provides -RRB- ; and/or 4 -RRB- You want to hire a relative to live with you to provide your care if you become unable to care for yourself , and probably would not have the money to do so without long term care benefits . The best age for buying long term care insurance , in my opinion , is between 50-60 years old .
First of all , there is no federal long-term care program . If a person is or becomes `` indigent '' by state standards , they may qualify to have their long-term care facility expenses paid for by Medicaid -LRB- Medical in CA -RRB- . There is a commission in Washington currently debating if there will be a federal long-term care program , but they will have no power to institute one and it 's doubtful that given our current budget deficit , a comprehensive program could be afforded by either the states or the feds -LRB- Medicaid is a jointly funded and administered medical program for the poor -RRB- . Private long-term care programs at this point in time consist of applying to an insurance company and going through full underwriting to determine insurability . If so , they are issued a long-term care policy of insurance . Only insurance agents that are certified to sell long term care -LRB- most states -RRB- can do so . There is a Partnership long-term care program in 36 states -LRB- plus charter Partnership programs still going in CA , CT , NY , and IN -RRB- . The state departments of health `` partner '' with the person with a Partnership-approved long-term care plan of insurance so that if they blow through the insurance policy maximum benefits and are still alive , the amount of the payout from the insurance company will increase the impoverishment threshold dollar-for-dollar for that person and if the insured 's personal non-exempt assets are lower than what the insurance company has paid out , Medicaid will take over payment of the person 's long-term care costs until s/he dies.Note that there are some limitations1 . The person needs to be in a facility for full payment of costs by Medicaid . -LRB- Home care reimbursement from Medicaid is under $ 300/mo . -RRB- 2 . A lien in the amount of money paid out by Medicaid is levied against the patient 's estate . -LRB- This is currently being debated and is a point of contention with some states and consumer groups . Whether it will actually be done is not certain , but it 's `` on the books '' . -RRB- 3 . While there is a promise that no discrimination will be made between `` Medicaid patients '' and `` paying patients '' in nursing facilities , audits of some facilities have found that there are , in fact , `` Medicaid rooms '' and regular rooms . When discovered , those facilities are supposedly ordered to make no distinction in treatment , care , or placement of patients based on their ability to pay.At this time , it is clear that there is a looming problem of how to take care of the elderly of the boomer generation as that demographic bubble passes through old age . And , though medical technology allows people to live longer , that life is not necessarily better . No solution has yet been proposed at the federal level . The problem will fall to Medicaid for now . Recent surveys have shown that only about 7-8 % of the population owns its own long-term care insurance . Some calculations indicate that Medicaid is solvent for only another 8-10 years as currently administered .
end question
start question
medicare-insurance
How Do I Apply For Medicare Part B ?
The best way to apply for Medicare Part B is to go to www.SSA.gov or visit your local Social Security office . The best time is a few months before you turn 65 or a few months before you need Medicare Part B to be effective . It is also a good idea to look at Medicare Supplement Plans to cover what original Medicare Part A & B does n't cover . You can do this through an independent agent that can show you all the major plans available to you . For more information about Medicare Part B and to run a Medicare Supplement Quote visit our website at SummitMedigap.com . You can also call us at 1-888-407-8664 .
Kidney dialysis is a Medicare Part B service . If you have End-Stage Renal Disease -LRB- also known as ESRD -RRB- , Medicare will -LRB- generally -RRB- coverthree dialysis treatments per week . You pay 20 % of the Medicare approved amount , and the Part B deductible applies . This is where your Medigap Plan will help cover some if not all of the remaining costs . Medigap Plan F will pay the remaining 20 % of the Medicare approved amount and the applicable Part B deductible . You pay $ 0 . Medigap Plan G will pay the remaining 20 % of the Medicare approved amount after you have paid/met the applicable Part B deductible . You pay , at most , $ 147 -LRB- Part B deductible in 2014 -RRB- . Medigap Plans A , B , D , M will pay the remaining 20 % of the Medicare approved amount after you have paid/met the applicable Part B deductible . However , you are also responsible for Part B Excess Charges , so you may end up paying more than the Part B deductible -LRB- $ 147 in 2014 -RRB- . Medigap Plan Cwill pay the remaining 20 % of the Medicare approved amount and the applicable Part B deductible ; however , you pay for any Medicare Part B Excess Charges . Medigap Plan Hi-F will pay all Medicare approved amounts after you have met/paid the $ 2,140 deductible -LRB- 2014 -RRB- . Medigap Plan Nwill pay the remaining 20 % of the Medicare approved amount after you have paid/met the applicable Part B deductible -- except for a copay of up to $ 20 for some office visits . You are also responsible for paying Medicare Part B Excess Charges . In regards to Excess Charges , this is what you are charged above the Medicare approved amount if the doctor , provider , or supplier does not accept Assignment . If a provider does not accept Assignment , they are telling Medicare that they do not agree to accept the payment amount Medicare approves for the service -- this is how you can get billed for Part B Excess Charges .
You qualify for Medicare Part A automatically at age 65 if you have paid into to Social Secuity for at least 10 quarters . You do not have to pay a premium for Part A . It has been paid for with the Medicare tax paid from payroll deductions from you and your employers during the time your work history . You also qualify for Part B Medicare at age 65 if if you qalify for Part A . You can elect to start Part B or delay it . If you elect to start Part B you will pay Medicare a premium for Part B . The amount you pay for Part B is determined by a sliding scale based on your income . The lowest Part B premium which most people pay is $ 104.90 . Three months before your 65th birthday and three months after is your open enrollment period when you are eligible to enroll in Medicare Part A and B . If you delay enrolling in Part B but stay enrolled in a qualified group health plan you can delay enrolling in Part B without penalty . If you do not enroll in Part B during your open enrollment peroid and are not enrolled in a qualified group health pay you will be charged a 10 % increase in your Part B premium each year that you day your enrollment . You can also qualify for Medicare Part A & B prior to your 65th birthday if your are approved for Disabled Social Security . If you are approved for Social Security based on a disabilty you can apply for Medicare Part A and B 24 months after you started reeciving Disabled Social Security .
Medicare supplement plans -LRB- commonly referred to as Medigap plans -RRB- are designed to help seniors who want high quality healthcare and are on Medicare , cover the gap between what hospitals and doctors charge for their services and what Medicare will pay . Health insurance is constantly changing , which can make finding the right plan for you very strenuous . Supplementing your Original Medicare coverage -LRB- Medicare Parts A & B -RRB- with a Medicare Supplement plan will help you create a very predictable expense structure for your healthcare and allow you to see any doctor you want that accepts Medicare . Any doctor that accepts Medicare will also accept your Medicare Supplement plan . Original Medicare -LRB- Parts A & B -RRB- covers appoximately 80 % of your healthcare expenses . Medicare supplements -LRB- or commonly referred to as Medigap -RRB- plans help provide coverage for the other 20 % . There are 10 different Medicare supplement plans and they are all standardized , meaning a plan F from company A and a plan F from company B feature the EXACT the same benefits . The 10 different plans available are plans A , B , C , D , F , G , K , L , M , and N. Each plan offers certain benefits some more comprehensive than others . For example , Plan A offers coverage of only the basic benefits of Medicare Supplement Insurance , while Plan F is the most comprehensive . Plan F also offers a high-deductible version of the plan it is the only plan that offers this feature . Under a high-deductible plan F -LRB- also referred to as Hi-F -RRB- , the insured must pay for Medicare-covered costs up to the years deductible amount $ 2,140 in 2014 before the supplement plan pays anything . The benefit of the high-deductible plan F is that it offers the insured a much lower monthly premium . There are 9 benefits available in Medigap plans : 1 -RRB- Medicare Part A coinsurance and hospital costs up to an additional 365 days after Medicare benefits are used up 2 -RRB- Medicare Part B coinsurance or copayment 3 -RRB- First 3 pints of blood 4 -RRB- Part A hospice care coinsurance or copayment 5 -RRB- Skilled nursing facility care coinsurance 6 -RRB- Medicare Part A deductible 7 -RRB- Medicare Part B deductible 8 -RRB- Medicare Part B excess charges 9 -RRB- Foreign travel emergency -LRB- up to limits as cited in the plans -RRB- Each plan provides a percentage of coverage for the first 4 benefits . From there , each plan features some or all of the other 5 benefits . Plan F is the most comprehensive benefit as it covers all 9 benefits at 100 % . Plan G is almost identical as it covers 8 benefits at 100 % -LRB- the one it does n't cover is the Part B deductible . Plan N is also very competitive - as long as your primary care doctor accepts Medicare and assignment , your only other payment other than your premium would be the Part B deductible -LRB- $ 147 in 2014 -RRB- and a copay at the doctor 's office -LRB- up to $ 20 per visit -RRB- or hospital -LRB- up to $ 50 per visit -RRB- . I highly recommend downloading a copy of the Medigap guidebook on the Medicare.gov website - the guidebook is titled `` Choosing a Medigap Policy : A Guide to Health Insurance for People with Medicare . '' Agents will have this on hand as well - it 's required to be given to the proposed insured if they decide to apply for a plan . You can send me a private message if you 'd like me to e-mail it to you . I hope the information is helpful - please feel free to contact me for assistance with your coverage including plan quotes and comparisons . Thanks very much .
Medicare is a federally structured health insurance program for a specific population segment . There are four different ` parts ' to Medicare ; Part A , Part B , Part C and Part D . In the simplest terms , Part A deals with inpatient costs and typically is provided without additional cost to the beneficiary . Part B deals with the costs related with doctors and typically has a premium related to it . Part D is prescription drug coverage that is administered through private health insurers under strict regulation and has premiums associated . Part C is the Medicare Advantage you ask about . This is an insurance product that is administered through private health insurers under strict regulations through Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services -LRB- CMS -RRB- and covers the same expenses as Parts A and B . In order to qualify for Medicare Advantage , you must be enrolled in both Medicare Part A and B. Medicare Advantage does not replace your Part A and B , instead it administers your health care under the guidance of CMS . All Medicare Advantage plans are required to provide at a minimum the same coverage as Original Medicare -LRB- Part A and B -RRB- , but most plans offer additional benefits . Many Medicare Advantage plans also offer prescription drug coverage -LRB- Part D -RRB- , some do not . Some Medicare Advantage plans have zero premium , some have premiums .
`` Excess Charges '' only occur with Part B coverage . Whether or not a Medicare Beneficiary may be subjected to Part B Excess Charges by a provider depends entirely on how the provider is contracted with Medicare . When the provider choose their method of contracting with Medicare they must choose whether they will be `` Participating '' or `` Non-Participating '' . This terminology may be confusing but it really is not . `` Participating '' simply means the provider will accept the Medicare assignment of the Medicare approved amount as payment as total payment -LRB- Medicare 's part -RRB- for services rendered . `` Non-Participating '' means the provider has chosen to not necessarily accept the Medicare approved amount as total payment -LRB- Medicare 's part -RRB- for services rendered and may choose to charge the beneficiary up to 15 % of the Medicare approved amount -LRB- in addition to the beneficiary 's cost sharing amount -RRB- . The provider may choose on a case-by-case basis whether to seek excess charges from the beneficiary . This rule applies ONLY to physician fee schedules thus applies only to Medicare Part B charges . So it depends entirely upon whether the provider has chosen to contract as a `` Participating '' or `` Non-Participating '' provider with Medicare . If you are in doubt it may be beneficial to contact the office manager at your provider 's office and ask whether the provider is `` Participating '' or `` Non-Participating '' as it applies to Medicare approved payments . All the best . Mark
Let 's review the history of Medicare . When Medicare was introduced in 1965 Medicare included Part A -LRB- hospital -RRB- and Part B -LRB- outpatient -RRB- . Then the Part D was added to cover the drugs . So now we have Part A , Part B , and Part D. Part C-Medicare Advantage combines Part A , B , and D into one policy - Part C. Medicare purchasing decisions are based on the question of can I afford to pay for a medicare supplement and a drug plan plus the medicare supplement premium will increase each year . Depending which State and what County that live in many Medicare Advantage Plans -LRB- Part C -RRB- have a zero premium while they include coverage for Part A , B , & D . What is the catch ? First of all you need to understand once you make the decision to go the Medicare Advantage Plan way you will only be able to purchase a medicare supplement plan in the future only if you pass underwriting questions . So if you have developed heart conditions , diabetes , etc. then you will have to stay with Medicare Advantage or be prepared to cover the Part A deductible and all the Part B charges not covered by Medicare . Medicare Advantage has copays that are required each time visit the doctor-typically that range from $ 20 for primary care physician to $ 50 for specialist . Obviously , the more times you go to the doctor the more it pays for you to stay with original medicare
Part A covers inpatient hospital stays , skilled nursing facility stays , home health visits -LRB- also covered under Part B -RRB- , and hospice care , and accounted for 32 % of benefit spending in 2012 . Part A benefits are subject to a deductible -LRB- $ 1,184 per benefit period in 2013 -RRB- and coinsurance . Part B covers physician visits , outpatient services , preventive services , and home health visits , and accounted for 19 % of benefit spending in 2012 . Part B benefits are subject to a deductible -LRB- $ 147 in 2013 -RRB- , and cost sharing generally applies for most Part B benefits . Part C refers to the Medicare Advantage program , through which beneficiaries can enroll in a private health plan , such as a health maintenance organization -LRB- HMO -RRB- , and receive all Medicare-covered benefits . Payments to Medicare Advantage plans to cover Part A and Part B benefits accounted for 23 % of benefit spending in 2012 . More than 13 million beneficiaries were enrolled in a Medicare Advantage plan in 2012 -LRB- 27 % of all beneficiaries -RRB- . Part D is the voluntary , subsidized outpatient prescription drug benefit , with additional subsidies for beneficiaries with low incomes and modest assets . The Part D benefit is offered through private plans that contract with Medicare , both stand-alone prescription drug plans -LRB- PDPs -RRB- and Medicare Advantage prescription drug plans -LRB- MA-PDs -RRB- . In 2012 , Part D accounted for 10 % of benefit spending . About 32 million beneficiaries were enrolled in a Medicare Part D plan in 2012 .
You can enroll in Medicare Part B when you turn 65 , when you have a special enrollment period -LRB- e.g. you 're 65 or older and coming off of group coverage -RRB- , or during the general enrollment period -LRB- January 1-March 31 of each year -RRB- . You may also be eligible for Part B under age 65 if you 're on social security disability or have a specific medical condition -LRB- e.g. ESRD or ALS -RRB- and meet eligibility requirements . When enrolling under a special enrollment period , the effective date would be the 1st of the following month after you apply . The effective date of coverage when applying during the general enrollment period will be July 1 of the year you apply . Please note , if you do n't enroll in Part B when you 're first eligible and you do n't have a special enrollment period available to you , you may be subject to a late enrollment penalty -LRB- premium can go up 10 % for each full 12-month period that you could have enrolled in Part B , but did not -RRB- . When you enroll in Part B , you also activate your 6-month open enrollment period to purchase a Medigap plan to cover the gaps in original Medicare -LRB- Parts A & B -RRB- with NO MEDICAL UNDERWRITING ! This is the best time to buy one if you do n't want to create an extremely predictable healthcare expense structure . Please feel free to contact me for further assistance . Thanks very much .
Your initial open enrollment period for Medicare Part B occurs when you 're turning 65 years old . It 's a 7-month window that starts 3 months before your birth month and ends 3 months after . If you enroll in during the 3 months prior to your birth month , then your effective date will be the 1st of your birth month . If you enroll during your birth month , your effective date will be the 1st day of the following month . If you enroll 1 month after you turn 65 , then your effective date will be 2 months after you sign up . If you enroll 2 months or 3 months after you turn 65 , then your effective date will be 3 months after you sign up . To avoid being hit with any delays , it is ideal to sign up during the 3 months prior to your birth month so it starts the month you turn 65 . Note - when you enroll in Medicare Part B , it activates your 6-month open enrollment period to buy a Medicare Supplement -LRB- Medigap -RRB- policy . Medigap plans covers what Medicare Part B does n't cover . This is the best time to buy a Medigap plan because you can secure any Medigap plan without any medical underwriting . This means that you can buy a plan regardless of what your medical history is . You also have the `` general enrollment period '' available to you if you do not sign up when you first turned 65 . This enrollment period for Medicare Part B occurs from January 1st through March 31st of each year . During this time , you can sign up for Medicare Part B if you did not do so when you turned 65 and do not have a special enrollment period available to you . Please note , if you sign up during the general enrollment period for Medicare Part B , the effective date for the coverage will be July 1st . You may also be subject to a late enrollment penalty if you enroll in Medicare Part B after your initial open enrollment period - calculated as a 10 % penalty for each 12-month period you could have had Part B and went without it . You may also have a `` special enrollment period '' available to you . A common scenario when this occurs is when someone comes off of group coverage through an employer . The effective date of your Medicare Part B coverage would be the first of the following month after you sign up . I hope the information is helpful - please feel free to contact me for help with your Medicare Supplement plan needs and if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
Original Medicare -LRB- Parts A & B -RRB- covers appoximately 80 % of your healthcare expenses . Medicare supplements -LRB- or commonly referred to as Medigap -RRB- plans help provide coverage for the other 20 % . There are 9 benefits available in Medigap plans : 1 -RRB- Medicare Part A coinsurance and hospital costs up to an additional 365 days after Medicare benefits are used up 2 -RRB- Medicare Part B coinsurance or copayment 3 -RRB- First 3 pints of blood 4 -RRB- Part A hospice care coinsurance or copayment 5 -RRB- Skilled nursing facility care coinsurance 6 -RRB- Medicare Part A deductible 7 -RRB- Medicare Part B deductible 8 -RRB- Medicare Part B excess charges 9 -RRB- Foreign travel emergency -LRB- up to limits as cited in the plans -RRB- Each plan provides a percentage of coverage for the first 4 benefits . From there , each plan features some or all of the other 5 benefits . Plan F is the most comprehensive benefit as it covers all 9 benefits at 100 % . Plan G is almost identical as it covers 8 benefits at 100 % -LRB- the one it does n't cover is the Part B deductible . Plan N is also very competitive - as long as your primary care doctor accepts Medicare and assignment , your only other payment other than your premium would be the Part B deductible -LRB- $ 147 in 2014 -RRB- and a copay at the doctor 's office -LRB- up to $ 20 per visit -RRB- or hospital -LRB- up to $ 50 per visit -RRB- . I highly recommend downloading a copy of the Medigap guidebook on the Medicare.gov website - the guidebook is titled `` Choosing a Medigap Policy : A Guide to Health Insurance for People with Medicare . '' Agents will have this on hand as well - it 's required to be given to the proposed insured if they decide to apply for a plan . You can send me a private message if you 'd like me to e-mail it to you .
You 're eligible for Medicare when you 're turning 65 years old . You can apply for Medicare benefits up to 3 months before , the month of , and up to 3 months after your birth month . I recommend applying during the 3 months before the month you turn 65 so your coverage starts on time -LRB- the first day of your birth month -RRB- - you can be subject to a delayed effective date if you apply during the 3 months after your birth month . People are eligible for premium-free Medicare Part A when they turn 65 and have met the 40 quarters -LRB- 10 years -RRB- of working life/paying FICA taxes . Anyone who is eligible for premium-free Part A , can qualify for Part B - Part B requires premiums . Younger individuals with certain disabilities who have been receiving social security disability benefits for 24 continuous months and those with end-stage renal disease , may also be eligible to receive Medicare benefits . Original Medicare -LRB- Parts A & B -RRB- only 80 % of covered healthcare expenses . Medigap plans -LRB- also known as Medicare supplement plans -RRB- can help cover all or a portion of the other 20 % . When you first enroll in Part B , you have a 6-month initial open enrollment period to buy a Medigap plan with NO medical underwriting . The advantage of having a Medigap plan to go with your Original Medicare coverage is that it creates a very predictable expense structure -LRB- a major advantage for seniors living on a fixed income -RRB- . I hope the information is helpful - please feel free to contact me for help and if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
Medicare is a federal-government run program so the type of coverage available under Medicare Parts A & B -LRB- also known as Original Medicare -RRB- will be the same regardless of the state you live in . The calculation of premiums for Original Medicare is the same everywhere as well - your income level can increase your Part B monthly premium though as it 's based on income level brackets . Medicare Part A is your hospital insurance . It provides benefits for your inpatient hospital stay , skilled nursing facility care , nursing home care , hospice care , and certain home health services . The benefit that is the most common claim is for hospital stays . During a hospital stay , your Part A will cover certain hospital services and supplies including semi-private rooms , meals , general nursing , and medications given during your stay . Acceptable hospital stays can include critical access hospitals , inpatient rehab facilities , LTC hospitals , acute care hospitals , and mental health care - you may want to confirm with Medicare whether a certain inpatient stay would be covered by a facility that is not a traditional hospital . Medicare Part B is your physician insurance . It covers doctor visits , tests , surgeries , preventive services , and supplies including DMEs -LRB- durable medical equipment -RRB- . The Part B deductible is $ 147 in 2014 . You 're responsible for about 20 % of healthcare expenses covered by Part B - Medicare only covers approximately 80 % of the costs . There is a guidebook called `` Medicare & You '' that provides a lot of information regarding Medicare coverage - the guidebook is updated each year with any new changes to coverage - you can get a copy of this from the medicare.gov website as well as look up additional information . I always recommend those on Medicare buy a Medigap plan to supplement their Part A & Part B coverage . Your Part A & Part B only covers about 80 % of expenses . A Medigap plan can cover all or a portion of the other 20 % of the expenses . The big advantage of having a Medigap plan is that it creates a very predictable healthcare expense structure . Medigap plans are also standardized , meaning the plan benefits are the same regardless of which company you purchase it from . The premiums for these programs can vary from company to company . I hope the information is helpful - please feel free to contact me for help and if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
Yes , it 's possible to enroll in Medicare Part B without also enrolling in Medicare Part A . You can do this if you 're 65 or older , a U.S. resident -LRB- additional rules apply for non-U.S. citizens -RRB- , and do not yet qualify for premium-free Part A -LRB- having met the requirement of 40 quarters -LRB- 10 years -RRB- of working life and paying FICA taxes -RRB- . If you qualify for premium-free Part A , you 'll apply for both Part A & B together or apply for Part A first and Part B down the line .
Yes , it 's possible to enroll in Medicare Part B without also enrolling in Medicare Part A . You can do this if you 're 65 or older , a U.S. resident -LRB- additional rules apply for non-U.S. citizens -RRB- , and do not yet qualify for premium-free Part A -LRB- having met the requirement of 40 quarters -LRB- 10 years -RRB- of working life and paying FICA taxes -RRB- . If you qualify for premium-free Part A , you 'll apply for both Part A & B together or apply for Part A first and Part B down the line .
For most people , you can get Medicare Part B when you turn age 65 . You can sign up for Medicare Part B by going to your local Social Security office or you can do it online at www.SSA.gov . It is also best to consider what type of Medicare Supplement you will need . You can review plans several months prior to getting your Medicare Part B and you can submit the application ahead of time . By doing this you can then have your Medicare Supplement have the same effective date as the Medicare Part B. Medicare Part A & B only covers about 80 % of the costs so people get a supplement to cover the difference . Medicare along with a supplement -LRB- Medigap -RRB- is great health insurance . You can go to our website for more information about Medicare Part B and Medicare Supplement information .
Remember every policy is different . Please read your policy completely to understand the coverage provided and any exclusions that there may be or contact your local agent to have them go over the policy with you . That being said . Below are some of the possible exclusions : A . We do not provide Liability Coverage for any `` insured '' : 1 . Who intentionally causes `` bodily injury '' or `` property damage '' . 2 . For `` property damage '' to property owned or being transported by that `` insured '' . 3 . For `` property damage '' to property : a. Rented to ; b. Used by ; or c . In the care of ; that `` insured '' . This Exclusion -LRB- A. 3 . -RRB- does not apply to `` property damage '' to a residence or private garage . 4 . For `` bodily injury '' to an employee of that `` insured '' during the course of employment . This Exclusion -LRB- A. 4 . -RRB- does not apply to `` bodily injury '' to a domestic employee unless workers compensation benefits are required or available for that domestic employee . 5 . For that `` insureds '' liability arising out of the ownership or operation of a vehicle while it is being used as a public or livery conveyance . This Exclusion -LRB- A. 5 . -RRB- does not apply to a sharethe - expense car pool . 6 . While employed or otherwise engaged in the `` business '' of : a. Selling ; b. Repairing ; c. Servicing ; d. Storing ; or e. Parking ; vehicles designed for use mainly on public highways . This includes road testing and delivery . This Exclusion -LRB- A. 6 . -RRB- does not apply to the ownership , maintenance or use of `` your covered auto '' by : a. You ; b. Any `` family member '' ; or c. Any partner , agent or employee of you or any `` family member '' . 7 . Maintaining or using any vehicle while that `` insured '' is employed or otherwise engaged in any `` business '' -LRB- other than farming or ranching -RRB- not described in Exclusion A. 6 . This Exclusion -LRB- A. 7 . -RRB- does not apply to the maintenance or use of a : a. Private passenger auto ; b. Pickup or van ; or c. `` Trailer '' used with a vehicle described in a. or b. above . 8 . Using a vehicle without a reasonable belief that that `` insured '' is entitled to do so . This Exclusion -LRB- A. 8 . -RRB- does not apply to a `` family member '' using `` your covered auto '' which is owned by you . 9 . For `` bodily injury '' or `` property damage '' for which that `` insured '' : a. Is an insured under a nuclear energy liability policy ; or b. Would be an insured under a nuclear energy liability policy but for its termination upon exhaustion of its limit of liability . A nuclear energy liability policy is a policy issued by any of the following or their successors : a. Nuclear Energy Liability Insurance Association ; b. Mutual Atomic Energy Liability Underwriters ; or c. Nuclear Insurance Association of Canada . B . We do not provide Liability Coverage for the ownership , maintenance or use of : 1 . Any vehicle which : a. Has fewer than four wheels ; or b. Is designed mainly for use off public roads . This Exclusion -LRB- B. 1 . -RRB- does not apply : a . While such vehicle is being used by an `` insured '' in a medical emergency ; b. To any `` trailer '' ; or c. To any non-owned golf cart . 2 . Any vehicle , other than `` your covered auto '' , which is : a. Owned by you ; or b. Furnished or available for your regular use . 3 . Any vehicle , other than `` your covered auto '' , which is : a. Owned by any `` family member '' ; or b. Furnished or available for the regular use of any `` family member '' . Page 4 of 13 ISO Properties , Inc. , 2003 PP 00 01 01 05 However , this Exclusion -LRB- B. 3 . -RRB- does not apply to you while you are maintaining or `` occupying '' any vehicle which is : a. Owned by a `` family member '' ; or b. Furnished or available for the regular use of a `` family member '' . 4 . Any vehicle , located inside a facility designed for racing , for the purpose of : a. Competing in ; or b. Practicing or preparing for ; any prearranged or organized racing or speed contest .
Medigap plans -LRB- also known as Medicare supplement plans -RRB- help seniors cover the gaps in Original Medicare -LRB- Medicare Part A & Part B -RRB- . Original Medicare covers about 80 % of healthcare expenses - a Medigap plan can pay all or a portion of the other 20 % , depending on which plan you have . Supplementing your Original Medicare coverage -LRB- Part A & Part B -RRB- with a Medigap plan will help you limit your out-of-pocket expenses and allow you to see any doctor you want that accepts Medicare . Any doctor that accepts Original Medicare will also accept your Medigap plan . There are 10 different Medigap plans and they are all standardized - meaning each plan type is exactly the same from every insurance company regardless of who you have your coverage through -LRB- the only difference being the price you pay for your Medigap plan -RRB- . The 10 Medigap plans are plans A , B , C , D , F , G , K , L , M , and N. Each plan offers certain benefits some more comprehensive than others . The benefits that can be secured under a Medigap plan are : 1 -RRB- Medicare Part A coinsurance plus coverage for 365 additional days after Medicare benefits are used up 2 -RRB- Medicare Part B coinsurance or copayment 3 -RRB- First 3 pints of blood 4 -RRB- Part A hospice care coinsurance or copayment 5 -RRB- Part A hospitalization deductible 6 -RRB- Part B medical deductible 7 -RRB- Part B excess charges 8 -RRB- Skilled nursing facility co-insurance 9 -RRB- Foreign travel emergency -LRB- up to plan limits -RRB- I hope the information is helpful - please feel free to contact me for help , including quotes and plan comparisons , and if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
In short , You can enroll for Medicare Part A and Part B through the social security administration -LRB- most people enroll online at their website , ssa.gov , but you can also enroll at your local ssa office -RRB- . Medicare Part A is your hospital insurance and part B is your physician insurance . Part A is premium-free for most people . Part B requires a monthly premium -LRB- $ 104.90 for 2014 - may be higher for persons with higher incomes -RRB- . The deductible for Part A in 2014 is $ 1,216 - Part B 's deductible is $ 147 . You 're also generally responsible for about 20 % of the healthcare expenses that are incurred - Medicare only covers approximately 80 % of the costs . You may want to consider buying a Medicare supplement plan -LRB- a.k.a. Medigap plan -RRB- to cover the other 20 % . Medigap plans -LRB- commonly known as Medicare supplement plans -RRB- work with Original Medicare -LRB- Parts A & B -RRB- to fill the `` gaps '' that it does n't cover . Original Medicare covers about 80 % of your healthcare expenses . A Medigap plan can cover a portion or all of the other 20 % , depending on which one you get . That 's a BIG pro . You also are n't restricted to networks , you do n't need referrals to see specialists , any doctor that accepts Medicare will accept the Medigap plan , you can apply for a different plan at any point throughout the year -LRB- if you want a different carrier or different benefits -RRB- , and they are guaranteed renewable ! The only con is that it typically costs more than an Advantage plan . Please feel free to contact me if I can be of further assistance . Thanks very much .
You can apply for Medicare up to 3 months before , the month of , and up to 3 months after your birth month . You should apply during the 3 months before the month you turn 65 so your coverage starts on time -LRB- the first day of your birth month -RRB- - you can be subject to a delayed effective date if you apply during the 3 months after your birth month . People are eligible for premium-free Medicare Part A when they turn 65 and have met the 40 quarters -LRB- 10 years -RRB- of working life/paying FICA taxes . Anyone who is eligible for premium-free Part A , can qualify for Part B - Part B requires premiums . Younger individuals with certain disabilities who have been receiving social security disability benefits for 24 continuous months and those with end-stage renal disease , may also be eligible to receive Medicare benefits . Original Medicare -LRB- Parts A & B -RRB- only 80 % of your healthcare expenses . Medigap plans -LRB- also known as Medicare supplement plans -RRB- can help cover all or a portion of the other 20 % . When you first enroll in Part B , you have a 6-month initial open enrollment period to buy a Medigap plan with NO medical underwriting . The advantage of having a Medigap plan to go with your Original Medicare coverage is that it creates a very predictable expense structure -LRB- a major advantage for seniors living on a fixed income -RRB- . I hope the information is helpful - please feel free to contact me for help and if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
end question
start question
medicare-insurance
Is Xeloda Covered By Medicare ?
In this brochure , WEBSITELINK put out by Medicare in June of 2012 , the following information is noted : Oral Cancer Drugs : Medicare will help pay for some cancer drugs you take bymouth if the same drug is available in injectable form or is a prodrug . Capecitabine or Xeloda is included in this list .
Medicare may cover some cancer drugs taken by mouth IF the same drug is available in an injectable form or is a prodrug . Xeloda is included this list . However , you will typically see these drugs covered under a stand-alone Part D prescription drug plan - you would need to check your plan 's formulary to see if this specific drug is covered and at what tier it would fall under . You may want to check with Medicare directly to verify if your specific scenario would fall under the Part B coverage guidelines or if you would need to refer to your prescription drug coverage -LRB- i.e. Part D plan or MAPD plan -RRB- .
Medicare may cover some cancer drugs taken by mouth IF the same drug is available in an injectable form or is a prodrug . Xeloda is included this list . However , you will typically see these drugs covered under a stand-alone Part D prescription drug plan - you would need to check your plan 's formulary to see if this specific drug is covered and at what tier it would fall under .
In this brochure , WEBSITELINK put out by Medicare in June of 2012 , the following information is noted : Oral Cancer Drugs : Medicare will help pay for some cancer drugs you take bymouth if the same drug is available in injectable form or is a prodrug . Capecitabine or Xeloda is included in this list .
Medicare supplement plans -LRB- commonly referred to as Medigap plans -RRB- are designed to help seniors who want high quality healthcare and are on Medicare , cover the gap between what hospitals and doctors charge for their services and what Medicare will pay . Health insurance is constantly changing , which can make finding the right plan for you very strenuous . Supplementing your Original Medicare coverage -LRB- Medicare Parts A & B -RRB- with a Medicare Supplement plan will help you create a very predictable expense structure for your healthcare and allow you to see any doctor you want that accepts Medicare . Any doctor that accepts Medicare will also accept your Medicare Supplement plan . Original Medicare -LRB- Parts A & B -RRB- covers appoximately 80 % of your healthcare expenses . Medicare supplements -LRB- or commonly referred to as Medigap -RRB- plans help provide coverage for the other 20 % . There are 10 different Medicare supplement plans and they are all standardized , meaning a plan F from company A and a plan F from company B feature the EXACT the same benefits . The 10 different plans available are plans A , B , C , D , F , G , K , L , M , and N. Each plan offers certain benefits some more comprehensive than others . For example , Plan A offers coverage of only the basic benefits of Medicare Supplement Insurance , while Plan F is the most comprehensive . Plan F also offers a high-deductible version of the plan it is the only plan that offers this feature . Under a high-deductible plan F -LRB- also referred to as Hi-F -RRB- , the insured must pay for Medicare-covered costs up to the years deductible amount $ 2,140 in 2014 before the supplement plan pays anything . The benefit of the high-deductible plan F is that it offers the insured a much lower monthly premium . There are 9 benefits available in Medigap plans : 1 -RRB- Medicare Part A coinsurance and hospital costs up to an additional 365 days after Medicare benefits are used up 2 -RRB- Medicare Part B coinsurance or copayment 3 -RRB- First 3 pints of blood 4 -RRB- Part A hospice care coinsurance or copayment 5 -RRB- Skilled nursing facility care coinsurance 6 -RRB- Medicare Part A deductible 7 -RRB- Medicare Part B deductible 8 -RRB- Medicare Part B excess charges 9 -RRB- Foreign travel emergency -LRB- up to limits as cited in the plans -RRB- Each plan provides a percentage of coverage for the first 4 benefits . From there , each plan features some or all of the other 5 benefits . Plan F is the most comprehensive benefit as it covers all 9 benefits at 100 % . Plan G is almost identical as it covers 8 benefits at 100 % -LRB- the one it does n't cover is the Part B deductible . Plan N is also very competitive - as long as your primary care doctor accepts Medicare and assignment , your only other payment other than your premium would be the Part B deductible -LRB- $ 147 in 2014 -RRB- and a copay at the doctor 's office -LRB- up to $ 20 per visit -RRB- or hospital -LRB- up to $ 50 per visit -RRB- . I highly recommend downloading a copy of the Medigap guidebook on the Medicare.gov website - the guidebook is titled `` Choosing a Medigap Policy : A Guide to Health Insurance for People with Medicare . '' Agents will have this on hand as well - it 's required to be given to the proposed insured if they decide to apply for a plan . You can send me a private message if you 'd like me to e-mail it to you . I hope the information is helpful - please feel free to contact me for assistance with your coverage including plan quotes and comparisons . Thanks very much .
The question is difficult to answer because of the amount of variables involved but I will try to cover all the bases . If you want a Medicare supplement that is going to cover all Medical expenses approved but not covered in full by Medicare , you would go with a plan G or Plan F. Plan G has a deductible of $ 166 but after it has been met , it is the same as a plan F which covers the $ 166 Part B deductible . So for full coverage , go with Plan F or G but they will cost you the most a well . If you have a high amount of medical care , the math will work on these plans . If you do not utilize a lot of care , you will be spending the money on premium every month but getting your moneys worth out of it . For those that have low/basic medical needs , you could try a lower cost option . Plans K , L and High F supplements can all be good options to consider . Like all Medicare supplements , you can still go to any doctor that accepts Medicare when using these plans . Depending on the state you live in and company you choose the price points will vary between the three plans . In a nutshell here is what they cover . Plan L - covers 75 % of the costs not covered by Original Medicare Plan K - covers 50 % of the costs not covered by Original Medicare High F - covers 100 % of costs not covered by Medicare after a deductible of $ 2,180 has been met . The deductible is not a true deductible but means that you only pay the deductibles and copays not covered by original Medicare . Original Medicare still provides the benefits you would normally get but the High F plan does not cover the left over costs until the $ 2,180 has been met . High F usually has the lowest price point of the three plans . In some states , the premium can be as low as $ 28 a month for the plan . Given it is a supplement , you would still need to buy a drug plan if you wanted RX coverage .
Medicare Advantage is a private form of Medicare run by insurance companies . When you enroll in a Medicare Advantage plan you are no longer participating in original Medicare . Your doctor and other providers file claims with your Advantage insurance carrier , not with Medicare . Your Advantage carrier adjudicates the claim and pays it if approved . Advantage plans are not a supplement to Medicare , they replace Medicare . Amplification . Some people are confused about this since Advantage plans are often referred to as Medicare Part C . When you enroll in an Advantage plan your benefits are provided by an insurance carrier that is a sub-contractor of Medicare . Other than your Medicare Part B premium -LRB- which is still paid to Medicare , or deducted from your Social Security check -RRB- premiums -LRB- if any -RRB- for your benefits are paid to the Advantage carrier . Medicare does not review or adjudicate claims . Medicare does not resolve claim disputes you may have with your Advantage carrier . All of your benefits are covered and provided by your Advantage policy . If you decide to drop your Advantage coverage you have a right to switch to original Medicare . Original Medicare and Medicare Advantage are two separate and distinct systems of providing health insurance . Advantage plans cover the same medical conditions as Medicare -LRB- except Advantage carriers will not issue a policy if you have ESRD -RRB- but the benefits and administration are completely separate . Consider this . Medicare Part D is an insured benefit you purchase from an insurance carrier . The drug plans are not offered direct by Medicare and your claims are handled by the insurance carrier or the PBM that manages the coverage for them . Medicare Part C and D are completely independent from Medicare .
I do n't believe Medicare will cover an at-home blood pressure monitor . It does not appear to be listed on Medicare 's website as durable medical equipment . Upon a little research , it looks like there are a couple of exceptions to have it covered by Medicare : 1 -RRB- a patient receiving blood dialysis in the home . 2 -RRB- an ambulatory bp monitoring device that takes/stores bp readings in 24 hour cycles for a patient who a doctor believes has `` white coat hypertension '' -LRB- artificially high bp readings when taken in a doctor 's office - based on multiple testing completed in an office and out of an office -RRB- . If you meet either of these and Medicare approves coverage for the device , it would be covered under Medicare Part B and the monitor would then need to be rented from a Medicare-certified medical equipment supplier . Medicare would then cover 80 % of the expense and you would be responsible for 20 % of the expense -LRB- if you have a Medigap plan , it would then likely cover all or a portion of that other 20 % -RRB- . If you 're under a Medicare Advantage plan , it may provide benefits not covered under original Medicare so it would be good to check with your carrier . If Medicare does not cover the device , you will be responsible for the cost of the monitor . I hope the information is helpful - please feel free to contact me with any other questions . Thanks very much .
A Medigap plan , also known as Medicare Supplement insurance , is sold by private companies to help off-set the cost of some health care expenses not covered by Original Medicare does n't cover , like co-payments , coinsurance , and deductibles . One other huge benefit of any Medigap plan is the extension of your hospital coverage -LRB- paid under Medicare Part A -RRB- by an additional 365 days . Some Medigap policies also offer additional coverage for services that Original Medicare does not cover , such as medical care when you travel outside the U.S. . If you have Original Medicare and you buy a Medigap policy , Medicare will pay its share of the Medicare-approved amount for covered health care costs . Then your Medigap policy pays its share . In most states , there are ten standardized Medigap plans , known by letters A through M. Regardless of that state in which you reside , or the company you purchase Plan A will always provide the exact same coverage as any other Plan A . The most popular plan is F , which covers 100 % of all patient cost sharing for Medicare-covered expenses . Plan G is also a popular option , often significantly cheaper than Plan F , with almost the exact same coverage -LRB- G covers everything F does , expect your Medicare Part B deductible -RRB- .
Medicare is a federal-government run program so the type of coverage available under Medicare Parts A & B -LRB- also known as Original Medicare -RRB- will be the same regardless of the state you live in . The calculation of premiums for Original Medicare is the same everywhere as well - your income level can increase your Part B monthly premium though as it 's based on income level brackets . Medicare Part A is your hospital insurance . It provides benefits for your inpatient hospital stay , skilled nursing facility care , nursing home care , hospice care , and certain home health services . The benefit that is the most common claim is for hospital stays . During a hospital stay , your Part A will cover certain hospital services and supplies including semi-private rooms , meals , general nursing , and medications given during your stay . Acceptable hospital stays can include critical access hospitals , inpatient rehab facilities , LTC hospitals , acute care hospitals , and mental health care - you may want to confirm with Medicare whether a certain inpatient stay would be covered by a facility that is not a traditional hospital . Medicare Part B is your physician insurance . It covers doctor visits , tests , surgeries , preventive services , and supplies including DMEs -LRB- durable medical equipment -RRB- . The Part B deductible is $ 147 in 2014 . You 're responsible for about 20 % of healthcare expenses covered by Part B - Medicare only covers approximately 80 % of the costs . There is a guidebook called `` Medicare & You '' that provides a lot of information regarding Medicare coverage - the guidebook is updated each year with any new changes to coverage - you can get a copy of this from the medicare.gov website as well as look up additional information . I always recommend those on Medicare buy a Medigap plan to supplement their Part A & Part B coverage . Your Part A & Part B only covers about 80 % of expenses . A Medigap plan can cover all or a portion of the other 20 % of the expenses . The big advantage of having a Medigap plan is that it creates a very predictable healthcare expense structure . Medigap plans are also standardized , meaning the plan benefits are the same regardless of which company you purchase it from . The premiums for these programs can vary from company to company . I hope the information is helpful - please feel free to contact me for help and if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
Let 's review the history of Medicare . When Medicare was introduced in 1965 Medicare included Part A -LRB- hospital -RRB- and Part B -LRB- outpatient -RRB- . Then the Part D was added to cover the drugs . So now we have Part A , Part B , and Part D. Part C-Medicare Advantage combines Part A , B , and D into one policy - Part C. Medicare purchasing decisions are based on the question of can I afford to pay for a medicare supplement and a drug plan plus the medicare supplement premium will increase each year . Depending which State and what County that live in many Medicare Advantage Plans -LRB- Part C -RRB- have a zero premium while they include coverage for Part A , B , & D . What is the catch ? First of all you need to understand once you make the decision to go the Medicare Advantage Plan way you will only be able to purchase a medicare supplement plan in the future only if you pass underwriting questions . So if you have developed heart conditions , diabetes , etc. then you will have to stay with Medicare Advantage or be prepared to cover the Part A deductible and all the Part B charges not covered by Medicare . Medicare Advantage has copays that are required each time visit the doctor-typically that range from $ 20 for primary care physician to $ 50 for specialist . Obviously , the more times you go to the doctor the more it pays for you to stay with original medicare
Medigap plans -LRB- commonly referred to as Medicare supplement plans -RRB- are supplemental insurance plans that cover all or a portion of the gaps in Original Medicare -LRB- depending on which Medigap plan you buy -RRB- . They are designed to help seniors who want high quality healthcare and are on Medicare , cover the gap between what hospitals and doctors charge for their services and what Medicare will pay . Health insurance is constantly changing , which can make finding the right plan for you very strenuous . Supplementing your Original Medicare coverage -LRB- Medicare Parts A & B -RRB- with a Medicare Supplement plan will help you create a very predictable expense structure for your healthcare and allow you to see any doctor you want that accepts Medicare . Any doctor that accepts Medicare will also accept your Medicare Supplement plan . There are 10 different Medicare supplement plans and they are all standardized , meaning a plan F from company A and a plan F from company B feature the EXACT same benefits . The 10 different plans available are plans A , B , C , D , F , G , K , L , M , and N -LRB- a high-deductible plan F is also available that features a $ 2,140 deductible in 2014 - the trade-off being a substantially reduced premium -RRB- . Each plan offers certain benefits some more comprehensive than others . Each plan must cover a core set of benefits -LRB- also known as the basic benefits -RRB- . The basic benefits are 1 -RRB- Medicare Part A coinsurance plus coverage for 365 additional days after Medicare benefits are used up . 2 -RRB- Medicare Part B coinsurance or copayment 3 -RRB- First 3 pints of blood 4 -RRB- Part A hospice care coinsurance or copayment There 's a total of 9 benefits that can be secured . The other 5 benefits available under a Medigap plan are : 1 -RRB- Skilled Nursing Facility Care coinsurance 2 -RRB- Medicare Part A deductible 3 -RRB- Medicare Part B deductible 4 -RRB- Medicare Part B excess charges 5 -RRB- Foreign travel emergency -LRB- up to plan limits -RRB- Each plan features a different structure , Each plan covers a different combination of these 9 benefits -LRB- some of the plans feature coinsurance or copayments for certain benefits -RRB- . If cost is not a major factor for you , Plan F will be the recommended choice because it covers all 9 benefits at 100 % - it 's the most popular plan by far . If you 're looking to keep your costs down , but still have very comprehensive coverage , you may want to look at plans C , G , and N as well . When you 're looking to buy a Medigap plan , you should consult with an independent Medigap insurance agent to review the plans in detail to see which one will best serve your needs , help you identify all of the carriers offering Medigap plans in your zip code , and which one will be able to offer the coverage to you at the lowest cost -LRB- the plans are standardized so the biggest difference between them is price - the benefits are exactly the same regardless of the carrier you have the Medigap plan through -RRB- . I hope the information is helpful - please feel free to contact me for assistance with your Medigap coverage needs , including quotes and plan comparisons , and if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
A Medicare supplement -LRB- Medigap -RRB- insurance , sold by private companies , can help pay some of the health care costs that Original Medicare does n't cover , like copayments , coinsurance , and deductibles . Some Medigap policies also offer coverage for services that Original Medicare does n't cover , like medical care when you travel outside the U.S. . If you have Original Medicare and you buy a Medigap policy , Medicare will pay its share of the Medicare-approved amount for covered health care costs . Then your Medigap policy pays its share . A Medigap policy is different from a Medicare Advantage Plan . Those plans are ways to get Medicare benefits , while a Medigap policy only supplements your Original Medicare benefits . Medigap policies do n't cover everything ! Medigap policies generally do n't cover WEBSITELINK long-term care , vision or dental care , hearing aids , eyeglasses , or private-duty nursing .
Medicare Supplement Plan A is required to be offered by all insurance companies who offer Medicare supplement plans . This plan covers 100 % of the basic benefits that can be offered by insurance companies under a Medicare supplement plan and is suitable for individuals on a budget who want to have a little more coverage than what Medicare Part A and Part B provides . Medicare Supplement Plan A Covered Benefits : 1 -RRB- Medicare Part A coinsurance plus coverage for 365 additional days after Medicare benefits are used up 2 -RRB- Medicare Part B coinsurance or copayment 3 -RRB- First 3 pints of blood 4 -RRB- Part A hospice care coinsurance or copayment Benefits not covered : 1 -RRB- Skilled Nursing Facility Care coinsurance 2 -RRB- Medicare Part A deductible 3 -RRB- Medicare Part B deductible 4 -RRB- Medicare Part B excess charges 5 -RRB- Foreign travel emergency -LRB- up to plan limits -RRB- Medicare supplement plans can be purchased through an insurance agent/broker .
You have asked a very complicated question . There is no simple answer , but I will try to give you an idea . Medicare has 4 parts . Part A is hospital insurance and has no premium . Part B is your health insurance and pretty much covers everything covered by Medicare other than hospital costs and post hospital skilled nursing . The premium for that varies according your your income . For most people , it is currently $ 104.90 per month -LRB- 2013 -RRB- and if you are taking your Social Security , it is deducted from your monthly payment . Part A and B constitute Original Medicare . Medicare Part C established Medicare Advantage plans , and Part D is prescription drug coverage . If you select an advantage plan , your insurance will be provided by an insurance company . These usually take the form of an HMO or PPO and have generally the same restrictions and exposure as a non Medicare HMO or PPO . Most include prescription drug coverage so you wo n't need a Part D. However , make sure your particular prescriptions are covered . If you select Original Medicare , you will probably want to choose a Medicare Supplement , or Medigap policy . These plans have a monthly premium , and do n't cover prescription drugs , but do lower your exposure to big expenses . Most of the plans do not have copayments . You can choose a supplement that covers all of the things that are covered by Medicare and lower your risk to virtually zero . While the plans are standardized , the premiums will vary from state to state and from company to company . If you choose a supplement , you will also need to pick a Part D prescription drug plan . The costs for these also vary and are influenced by the particular prescriptions you take . You can learn more at the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services , www.cms.gov .
Medicare can cover INR testing once a month when certain conditions are met . Typically you 'll need to consult with your doctor and have them determine if it is medically necessary and confirm with Medicare that the treatment course will be covered -LRB- would fall under Part B - your physician insurance for outpatient procedures -RRB- . Here 's a link to a publication from CMS -LRB- the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services -RRB- that provides a detailed explanation regarding INR testing , what specific conditions must be met to have it covered , and how Medicare covers it : WEBSITELINK Please note , under Medicare Part B , only 80 % of the expense would be covered by Medicare . If you have a Medicare Supplement plan , it may cover some or all of the other 20 % -LRB- depending on the plan letter you have -RRB- of the service expenses . If you do not have a Medicare Supplement , please feel free to contact me to see about qualifying for one . Medicare Supplement plans are standardized , meaning the benefits are exactly the same regardless of which insurance carrier you have the coverage through -LRB- only the price is different ! -RRB- Even if you already have a Medicare Supplement plan , I can take a quick look to see if a lower monthly premium is available -LRB- takes less than 5 minutes and I may be able to save you a ton of money on your monthly premium -RRB- . I hope the information is helpful - please feel free to contact me with any other questions . Thanks very much .
Medicare Part A covers hospitalization benefits . It covers all costs for most hospital stays , except there is a deductible of about $ 1260 in 2015 . All out-patient benefits are provided by Medicare Part B . These include doctor visits for illness as well as wellness care , testing etc. . Note that you must pay for Medicare part B . The cost is generally about $ 105-110 / mo , unless you are in a higher income bracket . There is a deductible for Part B benefits also . It is $ 137 in 2015 . Medicare Part B covers about 80 % of the costs of out-patient care if the service is provided by a practitioner who/which accepts Medicare . A Medicare Supplement could pay much or all of the deductibles and co-pays under Medicare . You must continue to pay the Part B premium . If you choose to be covered by a Medicare Advantage Plan , INSTEAD of Medicare , you must continue to pay the Medicare part B premium .
Humana Choice PPO would be a Medicare Advantage plan . When you are on Medicare and have a Medicare Advantage plan , coverage falls under the benefits described in your Medicare Advantage plan . It does not get billed to Medicare first and then to the Medicare Advantage plan carrier -LRB- in this case Humana -RRB- or vice versa . It would only be billed through Humana - the carrier pays their portion and you would be responsible for the portion dictacted by the plan benefits -LRB- e.g. you may be responsible for a deductible and then a coinsurance/copayment amount , etc. -RRB- . Medicare Advantage plans are senior health insurance plans that work similarly to the under 65 health plans -LRB- deductibles , copays , coinsurances , max out of pocket expenses , networks , etc. -RRB- . In short , the gov ' t pays the carrier x number of dollars for each enrollee under the plan and the carrier takes the risk of expenses . So when you have a claim , the claim gets processed through the carrier rather than directly to Medicare . Medicare Supplement plans -LRB- also known as Medigap plans -RRB- operate as a supplement -LRB- key work there - supplement -RRB- to original Medicare -LRB- your Part A & Part B coverage -RRB- . When you have Medicare and a Medicare Supplement plan , the physician -LRB- or hospital or other facility -RRB- bills Medicare and then bills the carrier for their portion of charges - depending on which plan letter you have , you may be responsible for a small portion or nothing at all . The idea of a Medicare Supplement plan is to create a predictable expense structure for your healthcare needs rather than taking on a larger portion of risk of expenses on claims . Plus , the Medicare Supplement plan structure allows you to go to any doctor that takes Medicare , meaning no networks and they are not restricted to annual enrollment periods like Medicare Advantage plans are . If you want to take a look at a Medicare Supplement plan to see how it compares , I can help you with that . The Medicare Advantage Disenrollment Period -LRB- MADP -RRB- is from January 1 - February 14 of each year so you have an option to change if you decide to do so . Please note , depending on several factors , you may or may not be subject to medical underwriting for a Medicare Supplement plan -LRB- e.g. whether you are new to Medicare , this is your first time in a Medicare Advantage plan , whether you have a guaranteed-issue right , etc. - I can help determine this -RRB- . My contact information is cited on my agent profile - you can access it by clicking on the `` contact me '' button . I hope the information is helpful - please let me know if you have any other questions I can assist with . Thanks very much .
Medigap plans -LRB- commonly referred to as Medicare supplement plans -RRB- are designed to help seniors who want high quality healthcare and are on Medicare , cover the gap between what hospitals and doctors charge for their services and what Medicare will pay . Health insurance is constantly changing , which can make finding the right plan for you very strenuous . Supplementing your Original Medicare coverage -LRB- Medicare Parts A & B -RRB- with a Medicare Supplement plan will help you create a very predictable expense structure for your healthcare and allow you to see any doctor you want that accepts Medicare . Any doctor that accepts Medicare will also accept your Medicare Supplement plan . There are 10 different Medicare supplement plans and they are all standardized , meaning a plan F from company A and a plan F from company B feature the EXACT the same benefits . The 10 different plans available are plans A , B , C , D , F , G , K , L , M , and N -LRB- a high-deductible plan F is also available that features a $ 2,140 deductible in 2014 -RRB- . Each plan offers certain benefits some more comprehensive than others . Each plan must cover a core set of benefits -LRB- also known as the basic benefits -RRB- . The basic benefits are : 1 -RRB- Medicare Part A coinsurance plus coverage for 365 additional days after Medicare benefits are used up . 2 -RRB- Medicare Part B coinsurance or copayment 3 -RRB- First 3 pints of blood 4 -RRB- Part A hospice care coinsurance or copayment There 's a total of 9 benefits that can be secured . The other 5 benefits are : 1 -RRB- Skilled Nursing Facility Care coinsurance 2 -RRB- Medicare Part A deductible 3 -RRB- Medicare Part B deductible 4 -RRB- Medicare Part B excess charges 5 -RRB- Foreign travel emergency -LRB- up to plan limits -RRB- Each plan features a different structure , Plan F is the most popular plan because it 's the most comprehensive Medigap plan available as it covers all 9 benefits at 100 % . Consult with an experienced broker to review the plans in detail to see which one will best serve your needs . We have an in-depth knowledge of Medigap plans and can provide quotes from multiple carriers . Please let me know if I can be of further assistance . Thanks very much .
Medigap plans -LRB- also known as Medicare supplement plans -RRB- are designed to help seniors who want high quality healthcare and are on Medicare , cover the gap between what hospitals and doctors charge for their services and what Medicare will pay.Health insurance is constantly changing , which can make finding the right plan for you very strenuous . Supplementing your Original Medicare coverage -LRB- Medicare Parts A & B -RRB- with a Medicare Supplement plan will help you create a very predictable expense structure for your healthcare and allow you to see any doctor you want that accepts Medicare . Any doctor that accepts Medicare will also accept your Medicare Supplement plan . There are 10 different Medicare supplement plans and they are all standardized , meaning a plan F from company A and a plan F from company B feature the EXACT the same benefits . The 10 different plans available are plans A , B , C , D , F , G , K , L , M , and N -LRB- a high-deductible plan F is also available that features a $ 2,140 deductible in 2014 -RRB- . Each plan offers certain benefits some more comprehensive than others . Each plan must cover a core set of benefits -LRB- also known as the basic benefits -RRB- . The basic benefits are : 1 -RRB- Medicare Part A coinsurance plus coverage for 365 additional days after Medicare benefits are used up . 2 -RRB- Medicare Part B coinsurance or copayment 3 -RRB- First 3 pints of blood 4 -RRB- Part A hospice care coinsurance or copayment There 's a total of 9 benefits that can be secured . The other 5 benefits are : 1 -RRB- Skilled Nursing Facility Care coinsurance 2 -RRB- Medicare Part A deductible 3 -RRB- Medicare Part B deductible 4 -RRB- Medicare Part B excess charges 5 -RRB- Foreign travel emergency -LRB- up to plan limits -RRB- Each plan features a different structure , Plan F is the most popular plan because it 's the most comprehensive Medigap plan available as it covers all 9 benefits at 100 % . Consult with an experienced broker to review the plans in detail to see which one will best serve your needs . We have an in-depth knowledge of Medigap plans and can provide quotes from multiple carriers . I hope the information is helpful . I have a strong background in senior insurance -LRB- including Medigap plans -RRB- so please feel free to contact me for assistance with your coverage and if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
end question
start question
home-insurance
Can I Switch Homeowners Insurance At Any Time ?
Of course . The only key to keep in mind is how your Homeowners ' Insurance is paid . If for example you pay it directly say on a monthly billing account , then the transfer can be very simple and easily handled by your insurance professional right in the office . If however , your Homeowners ' Insurance is paid by your Mortgage Company by an escrow account , it can still be done , but is a bit more complicated . Either way , talk to our Insurance Professional about your particular situation . There is a solution .
Yes , you can . Most people assume they can only switch at renewal , but this is n't so . If you choose to switch , it 's not hard . When you find new coverage , go ahead and pay for it . Then you can cancel your current policy . They will refund the premium they have n't used . For instance , if you paid for the entire year and you cancel six months into the term , they 'll refund half the premium . Now some things to be aware of : Do n't cancel your current coverage until you have new coverage in place . If you have a mortgage , be sure to notify your mortgage company about the new coverage . They may send you a notice that they have no coverage and you need to address this or they will force coverage at an extremely high rate that only protects them , not you . Get this notice to your agent so they can get the mortgage company what they need . If you pay your insurance through your mortgage payment , it 's a little more complicated . When you closed on your mortgage , you paid the first year of insurance up front . Then , the mortgage company puts part of your payment into escrow for the insurance . When it renews , they 've collected enough to pay the full year again , and the process continues that way . If you cancel during the year , the refund will come directly to you , not the mortgage company , and your escrow may be short . So , you 'll have to pay the premium for the first year to give the mortgage company time to catch up . It 's your insurance and you can cancel any time you 'd like . Just be aware of some of the pitfalls that may exist . Find a good agent you can trust and they can take care of the whole process for you .
You bet . Home insurance is n't a two-way street . There are certain things an insurance company is unable to do , such as cancel your policy if you are paying your premiums . On the other hand , as the policy holder , you have the right to cancel your policy at any time . Their are a couple key items to consider before making a change . 1 . What coverage changes exist from my current company to the new company ? Is my coverage improving ? 2 . What discounts will fall off by making this change ? 3 . How is the billing handled ? There are a couple more steps to take if your insurance if paid by your mortgage company . The bottom-line answer is yes . Work with an experience professional to help get the change done properly . It happens every day !
You can switch your auto policy at any time . The most popular motivation to switch insurance carriers is price . People are looking for the best price for there insurance all the time . Other reasons to switch would be a new car purchase or moving to a new state . Switching carriers is easy and there are many to choose from . Shopping your auto insurance around is a great idea to compare prices . Using and agent can help you find insurance carriers that you normally would not have access to but going direct to and insurer online is also beneficial cutting out a middle man and getting quotes instantly . Be sure to check the term dates , is it six months or a year policy ? This can effect the way you compare the premiums . You will want to match your old coverage with your new quotes . Make sure the coverages are the same or similar this can prevent a coverage gap where you thought you had coverage . If you new vehicle is n't so new any more you may want to lower the amount of coverage on a particular vehicle . This can help lower your premium on the new policy or you can amend you current one . So while you can switch you insurer at any time do your research and make sure that it works in your favor .
This is a common question most people have and the answer is yes , you can switch your insurance at any time . There is no mandate which states that you can not switch your insurance but the question is should you switch your insurance ? There are several things you want to consider before switching your auto insurance . The most common reason people switch their insurance is because of price . You will find that most states file insurance rates in January and June . So keep in mind depending on when you decide to switch your policy you could be hitting a price increase or decrease depending on what the state has filed . Switching your insurance once or even several times could actually hurt you . Companies are beginning to offer discounts such as loyalty discounts which dont kick in until you have been with them for so many years . Even though you may be saving $ 50 - $ 100 switching to another carrier you could be losing a lot more than that by not staying with your current insurance company . You may find loyalty discounts to range from 5 % -20 % depending on the company which could save you hundreds of dollars . But every situation is different so be sure to consider when your switching your insurance and what discounts you may or may not be losing .
In most circumstances it probably doesnt make any difference when you switch auto policies . Cancellations are treated on a pro-rata basis by many insurance companies . Doing a switch at renewal might be easiest , though . When considering a switch there are two things to consider . The first is the effect dropping coverage with one company might have on the premiums of other insurance policies that might have been bundled . The second is that switching frequently to save a few dollars does not allow you to develop any relationship with the agent , who might be your best friend at the time of a claim .
There is no fee that I am aware of to switch from one insurance company to another . The only reason that I am aware of that you want to switch insurance companies is lower cost . If there is a fee involved then you probably will not switch insurance companies . There is no fee to my knowledge to switch
If you have a Medicare Advantage Plan you can switch to a Medigap Plan during AEP -LRB- Annual Election Period -RRB- . Unless you are in a Guaranteed Issue situation , you will have to medically qualify for a Medigap Plan . There are other times during the year that you can switch from a Medicare Advantage Plan to Medigap . If you have Guaranteed Issue Rights , you can purchase a Medigap Plan in your state during your Guaranteed Issue period . Some Guaranteed Issue situations include : 1 . Your Medicare Advantage Plan is leaving Medicare or stops giving care in your area . 2 . You move out of your Plan 's service area . 3 . You joined a MA / MAPD when your were first eligible for Medicare Part A at 65 and within the first year of joining , you decide to switch back to Original Medicare . 4 . You dropped a Medigap Policy to join a MA / MAPD for the first time . You 've been in the Plan less than a year and you want to switch back . 5 . You leave a MA / MAPD because the company has n't ' followed the rules -- or misled you . MA = -LRB- Medicare Advantage -RRB- MAPD = -LRB- Medicare Advantage Prescription Drug -RRB- Thank you for reading my response .
As often as you like if you are referring to the actual policy . If you are referring to the writing company , you are free to search the market every year . Normally you will see homeowners insurance policies creep up every year . This is because most policies have an inflation guard built into the policy . It is designed to cover the increased cost of construction over time . Typically it is about 3 % -6 % . It can become a hassle to switch your homeowners insurance on a yearly basis because the company will come out and perform an inspection and can cancel the policy if they see something they do n't like . Also , eventually you will run out of companies to switch from/to . I would look to your independent insurance agent for the best advice .
You are allowed to switch from a Medicare Advantage plan under certain conditions . If you are 65 or older and have been on Medicare Part B for less than 6 months you can switch to original Medicare and a Medigap . If you are in your Advantage trial right period , you can switch to Medigap . If you can pass underwriting requirements , you can switch to Medigap .
While this is a serious tax question it could make sense to do this switch . A Roth IRA accumulates money for retirement and there isnt any tax on the accumulation prior to withdrawal . When you withdraw funds from a Roth IRA you will not have any taxes to pay ! Check with your accountant before making this switch as there could be serious income tax consequences in the year that you make the switch .
A homeowners policy much like an auto policy can be cancelled and taken up with another carrier at any time . Any portion of premiums that have been paid and not used should be refunded by the carrier . If you wish to switch carriers at any point in time you may do so .
If your homeowners insurance is escrowed do n't sweat it . Typically switching carriers for your homeowners insurance coverage from one carrier to another is fairly seamless and can be handled by your local agent . Depending on the carrier they may require a payment on the new policy to get things started . Your current carrier should refund any unused portion of premium . Your mortgage lender may change your escrow amount based on the new premium and the timing of the start of the new policy in comparison to the homeowners insurance renewal date .
You can switch your Medicare Supplement anytime you want to as long as you can pass medical underwriting . If you have any serious pre-existing health conditions you may not be able to switch to another company . If you can qualify with a new company you and your wife will probably be able to save a lot of money and still receive good coverage for the gaps in your Original Medicare Part A and Part B coverage . If you currently have a Plan F consider switching to a Plan G or Plan N.
Yes and no . You can not be turned down for Medigap Insurance if : You are in your Open Enrollment Period -- the one-time only , 6 month period that allows you to buy any Medigap policy you want that is sold in your state -LRB- starting the first month you 're covered under Medicare Part B AND you 're 65 or older -RRB- . During this period , an insurance company can not deny you a Medigap policy . Your Medicare Advantage Plan is leaving Medicare or stops giving care in your area , or you move out of your Medicare Advantage Plan area . You have orignial Medicare and an employer , retiree , union , or COBRA coverage that is ending . You move out of the service area for your Medicare SELECT policy . When you were first eligible for Part A at 65 , you joined a Medicare Advantage Plan or PACE program and you decide within the first year of joining to switch back to Original Medicare . You dropped a Medigap policy to join a Medicare Advantage Plan for the first time , it 's been les than a year and you want to switch back . The Medigap insurance company that holds your policy goes bankrupt , or your coverage otherwise ends through no fault of your own . However ... If you already have a Medigap policy and want to switch to another company , you will be required to answer health questions on the application . All insurance companies are unique with their medical underwriting guidelines ; but , you must be approved in order to buy a Medigap policy . If you have original Medicare Part A and B and are outside the Open Enrollment Period , then you will also be required to answer health questions to be approved through the medical underwriting process . Every individual case is unique and an agent who specializes in Medicare Supplement insurance , can help you determine your ability to get Medigap insurance . If I can be of assistance , please call me at 1-888-411-1329 .
Some companies offer persons with life insurance that has been rated Standard or better , the chance to switch their Term life insurance to that company without any health requirements . Otherwise , switching coverage usually involves applying for a new policy . This can be a good thing if your original policy was overpriced , or you lost weight or quit smoking or something that would reduce the rate on a new policy , or if you wanted to lock the premium in for a longer time than your current policy did . If your current policy is a Whole or Universal Life policy , you need to contact an agent to find what would be lost by switching , or what other options exist that may be more favorable to you .
Switching homeowner 's insurance is relatively easy to do and most times , you can change at a date that is suitable to you . The biggestconcernis whether the new company will accept your application . Assuming you have few or no claims , and meet their underwriting guidelines , you should be able to switch . Just as importantly is the issue of whether it is a good idea to change . As an independentbroker , that 's part of our job is todetermineif making a change makes good financial sense for you . If not , you should stay put .
You can change your Homeowners ' Insurance at any time , but for the most part , the switch can be a bit less complicated at the policy 's anniversary date rather than mid-term . That having been said , if you decide you have a need to change at any time , talk to your Insurance Professional who will be able to help make it as easy and beneficial to you as possible .
You may have already gotten this resolved but since I have not seen anyone respond to this I thought I would put in my 2 cents worth . Everything you mention makes sense to me . When the company switched the accounts to the guaranteed fund the only way to switch it back would be to notify the company , usually with a company allocation form identifying the new allocations . What troubles me is that from what you are saying , there is no notification of the process . My best guess is there is something in the small print you have which talks about the process but without seeing any of this I can not directly help -LRB- there are no attachments on this venue -RRB- . I would recommend finding a broker and see if they know what the process is specifically with the company the policy is with .
Most people consider it to be a Fixed Annuity that has a level guaranteed interest rate over the entire surrender charge period . Some Fixed Annuities have a guaranteed rate for part of the surrender period , and then switch to what they call a `` current '' rate . The `` Current Rate '' can vary with market conditions . Most Annuities that are considered `` cd type '' Annuities , have a guaranteed rate during the surrender period . Then it switches to the current rate once there are no more surrender charges . But at this time , if the owner does not like the current rate , they are free to switch to a different product with no surrender charges/fees .
end question
start question
disability-insurance
How Does Disability Insurance Work ?
Disability Insurance is a morbidity product that protects your ability to earn your current compensation , i.e. paycheck protection . Your number one asset is your ability to earn money to pay for the lifestyle you want . Disability insurance is paycheck protection and can generate a good portion of your income if you cant work . Most executive packages include full disability insurance coverage until age 65 . The odds are youll need it once during your working life . It can protect up to 60 % of your compensation as a tax free benefit or up to 80 % as a taxable benefit when the premium is deducted as a business expense .
Social Security disability insurance pays benefits to you and certain members of your family if you have earned enough work credits to be considered `` insured '' . Four work credits can be earned each year . In 2014 , you receive one work credit for each $ 1200 of earnings , up to the yearly maximum of four credits . How many credits you need for disability benefits depends on how old you are when you are disabled . If you become disabled prior to age 24 , you need 11/2 years of work -LRB- 6 credits -RRB- in the three years before you became disabled . For ages 24-30 , you need credits for half of the time between age 21 and when you became disabled . If you are 31 or older , you need at least 20 credits during the 10 year period preceding when you were disabled . Like most things associated with Social Security , it is a bit more complicated than this example . Remember , the worker has to have paid into Social Security to be qualified . There are `` survivor '' benefits as well . When a person who has worked and paid Social Security taxes dies , certain members of their family may be eligible for survivors benefits . Up to ten years of work is need to be eligible , depending on the person 's age at the time of death . A widow/widower can claim full benefits at their full retirement age and reduced benefits at age 60 . A disabled widow/widower can claim as early as age 50 . Divorced spouses under certain conditions can also claim survivor benefits . Unmarried children under age 18 -LRB- 19 if they are full time in elementary or secondary school -RRB- , some step-children , adopted children and grand children can also receive survivor benefits . There are many other situations where survivor benefits can be claimed such as a widow or widower of any age that takes care of a deceased person 's child under the age of 16 or disabled , and receiving Social Security benefits . Children who were disabled prior to their age 22 and remain disabled , and in some cases , dependent parents who are age 62 or older . As you can see , there are a lot of rules and regulations surrounding disability benefits for Social Security . Seek out someone who knows the rules .
Yes , disability insurance is really paycheck insurance and protects your income stream in the event an accident or illness prevents you from working . There are two type of disability insurance ; Short Term & Long Term disability . Short term plans usually cover periods of 13 or 26 weeks . Long Term plans , as their name implies , run for longer terms that can go on for years depending upon the policy . It is estimated that a 20 year old has a 25 % chance of being disabled for some period of time before they reach retirement age . Currently 12 % of the U.S. population is disabled with only 5 % of those disabilities being work related . So , a health problem or off the job accident is the most likely cause of someone becoming disabled . A recent report shows the average Social Security Disability payment is $ 1065 per month and qualifying for Social Security disability is famous for being difficult and time consuming with waits of 2 years for approval not being uncommon and as of 2009 , only 30 % of Social Security disability claims were approved . Relying on Social Security alone to preserve your lifestyle in the event of a disability is unwise . The majority of persons who experience a disabling event can return to work within about 90-days . But , for persons who experience a disability exceeding 90-days the average length of these types of disabling events is 3.2 years ! Ideally , a person will have both short term and long term disability insurance protection . Short term disability insurance will be less expensive and if your budget does n't allow for both coverages I would suggest starting out with short term coverage for the longest coverage period possible . If you are a female I would also recommend that you verify how a prospective short term disability policy treats maternity . Some policies treat maternity as a disabling event while others do not . This can be an important difference for a woman in her child bearing years .
How does health insurance work while on disability ? Since I just ended 12 months of disability that included many hospitalizations and treatments , I can tell you it works exactly the same as not being disabled . Disability insurance protects your income , health insurance protects your health . You can have both going on at once . Depending on your employment situation , how your health insurance is paid for may make a difference . Maybe your employer continues to pick it up , maybe it 's covered under workman 's comp , maybe you pay your own premiums . . the main thing is health insurance does n't go away if you 're collecting disability insurance .
Determining whether a disability will qualify you for a claim depends upon the policy 's `` definition of disability '' . It 's not something where one type of disability is covered and another may not be just because it 's a different kind . It 's about whether your specific disability is covered under policy 's definition of disability . The definition of disability is the most important factor under any disability insurance policy . A disability insurance policy will have 1 of 3 definition options -LRB- varies by carrier - some may only offer one definition , others may offer more than one as it would then depend upon type of disability policy being set up -LRB- e.g. long-term vs. short-term , group vs. individual , etc. -RRB- -RRB- - 1 -RRB- True Own Occupation , 2 -RRB- Modified Own Occupation , and 3 -RRB- Gainful Occupation . True Own Occupation is the most desirable definition you can have on a disability policy . This says that you are considered completely disabled if -LRB- due to injury or sickness -RRB- you are not able to perform the duties of your job , EVEN IF YOU ARE WORKING AT ANOTHER JOB -LRB- this last part is key ! -RRB- . Modified Own Occupation is the most common definition that policies offer in today 's marketplace . Under this definition , you are completely disabled if -LRB- due to injury or sickness -RRB- you are not able to perform the duties of your job , AND ARE NOT WORKING IN ANY OTHER JOB -LRB- again , this last part is key ! -RRB- . Gainful Occupation is typically seen in group disability policies and policies offered by property and casualty companies that offer disability policies . This definition is the most stringent saying that you ca n't work in your own occupation and unable to work in any gainful occupation for a period of time -LRB- e.g. 12 months , 24 months , etc. - can vary by company -RRB- . Also , whether you want to buy a short-term disability policy or a long-term disability policy is important too . You can have a combination of both . I would recommend reviewing your needs and goals with an independent agent who works with multiple carriers and can help determine the program structure that will best serve your needs because disability policies are very customizable as there are a number of additional options to choose from that affect the rates . It 's not a `` just pick and choose who has the lowest rates '' type of insurance - you really want to make sure you 've got the right coverage for what you 're trying to accomplish . I hope the information is helpful - please feel free to contact me for help with your coverage and if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
The purpose of disability insurance is to provide income if you are unable to continue your work for an extended period of time due to an illness or and injury . In disability insurance , there are 3 types of definitions that a policy can use - the definition of disability in the policy is the MOST CRITICAL item to look at in your coverage . As to which policy features which definition , you need to look at which carrier you 're using and what definition options their policies offer . The 3 definitions of disability that a policy can use are true own occupation , modified own occupation , and gainful occupation . True Own Occupation -LRB- commonly referred to as `` own-occ '' -RRB- is the most favorable definition you can have on your policy . This definition says that you are considered totally disabled if , solely due to injury or sickness , you are not able to perform the material and substantial duties of your occupation , even if you are at work in another occupation . Modified Own Occupation has become the most common definition that most disability policies offer today . The first part of the modified definition is similar to the True Own Occupation definition , however , the second part of the modified definition is where the major change comes into play . The definition says that you are considered totally disabled if , solely due to injury or sickness , you are not able to perform the material and substantial duties of your occupation , and are NOT engaged in any other occupation . Gainful Occupation is a definition that is more commonly seen in group disability plans or plans offered by property and casualty companies that offer disability coverage . This definition provides the least coverage out of every disability plan . If you have a disability plan with this definition , you may want to look at securing coverage with a modified or true own occupation definition - or at the very least supplement the coverage . Many people who are looking for the cheapest disability plan will often end up with this definition on their policy Disability insurance is a very complex type of insurance with many moving parts and quotes depend on a variety of factors . You can not simply shop for a disability policy as you would for a term life insurance policy . For this type of coverage , you want to work with agents that have in-depth knowledge of products , how disability insurance works , and experience with these programs to help you through the process from start to finish . Please let me know if you have any other questions . Thanks !
If you think you might qualify for Medicare due to a disability , you should first file for disability benefits through the Social Security Administration . If approved , you may be able to get Medicare prior to age 65 due to a disability . In order to qualify for Medicare due to a disability , you must meet the criteria defined by the Social Security Administration : `` Social Security pays only for total disability . No benefits are payable for partial disability or for short-term disability . `` Disability '' under Social Security is based on your inability to work . We consider you disabled under Social Security rules if : You can not do work that you did before ; We decide that you can not adjust to other work because of your medical condition -LRB- s -RRB- ; and Your disability has lasted or is expected to last for at least one year or to result in death '' . You can apply for benefits through Medicare because of a disability online at : WEBSITELINK if you are tech savvy . If you choose not to apply online , you can apply at any local Social Security Administration office by phone or in person and you can call ahead to make an appointment by calling 1-800-772-1213 . If you are deaf or hearing impaired , call the SSA 's toll-free TTY number , 1-800-325-0778 . Their representatives are available from 7AM to 7PM , Monday through Friday . It is important to note that this definition of disability `` is different than other programs '' and `` is a strict definition of disability '' according to the Social Security Administration . There are many , more comprehensive disability policies available which allow benefits to be paid for a partial disability , for example , or pay benefits to help with various expenses such as paying your mortgage in the event that you suffer a disability . In addition , these policies can be purchased for key people in a business such as a business partner or profitable executive . For questions regarding which disability policy may be best for you or how much coverage you may need , it is best to speak with an Insurance Professional . They are highly trained in the business of Insurance , and will complete a full analysis of your needs and make recommendations based on what 's in your best interest . An Insurance Professional is a great resource for any other programs and products that may be of benefit to you including state and federal resources that you may qualify for based on your unique situation such as applying for Disability through the Social Security Administration . There is a reason they are so highly trained and regulated ! Resources : www.ssa.gov
Is long term disability necessary ? Again these kind of questions fall to individual and what they need . Again Disability insurance is income insurance . If your income is not effected by being unable to work -LRB- passive income -RRB- then a Long Term Disability policy may not be necessary . How long could your disability be ? Who knows ? it has n't happened yet . Figuring how long you want coverage to run or what options you want is a risk that you decide . Carrying no risk is really expensive , no doubt about that . Carrying some risk , will cost a few dollars as well . Assuming all risk may work for a person too , but . . if it does n't well this where you read about people losing everything . Insurance is sharing risk with another entity . How much and how long is up to you .
I would say yes . Your ability to earn income is likely your biggest asset , so what would you do if you lost that ability ? Some important things think about when trying to figure out if disability insurance is right for you is : 1 -RRB- If you became disabled , could you continue to pay your bills -LRB- mortgage payments , car payments , credit card payments , etc. -RRB- ? 2 -RRB- How long would your savings last ? 3 -RRB- Would you still be able to retire when you planned or send your children to college ? 4 -RRB- What happens to your bonus compensation and retirement contributions ? Could you keep paying the overhead expenses if you own a business ? Most disabilities are not work related and therefore not covered by workers compensation and it can be very difficult to qualify for social security disability as many disability claims are denied - even if you are approved for Social Security , the payments will probably be significantly less than you earn . Disability insurance can protect you from losing your income and is one of the most important types of insurance you can buy , especially for business owners , key employees , physicians , attorneys , and anyone who has family that depends on their ability to provide income . A big advantage with disability insurance is that when you have a qualifying claim that triggers disability payments , the monies paid to you are paid as tax-free income -LRB- as long as you paid the prmeiums with your after tax dollars - most people do -RRB- . Please note , when you 're looking to purchase disability insurance , work with an experienced , independent disability insurance agent who can work with you on a personal level to help you determine what program is suitable to your needs and budget -LRB- disability insurance policies are very customizable -RRB- . Make sure you pay attention to the language in the policy - most importantly the definition of disability . The definition of disability is the most important aspect of your disability insurance policy and you want to secure the best definition you can -LRB- `` true own occupation '' is very much regarded as the best definition you can have -RRB- . I hope the information is helpful - please feel free to contact me for assistance with your disability insurance needs , including quotes and program comparisons , and if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
You need disability insurance as `` paycheck protection '' . You should look at your current monthly budget and determine what needs to be covered if you were to lose your paycheck due to an accident or illness . 1 in 4 20 year olds will go on disability before they retire from work . You should look at the your expenses and determine what is the net amount of income that I could get by on . Many people have disability insurance through their employeer . You have to be careful because this policy is usually paid `` pretex '' and is taxed upon your drawing income . You need to check your employeers policy to determine what your benefits are for disability . Business Owners can get a disability policy to pay for their business income . What would happen to your business if you could not do what you do daily to generate income . Would you need to hire somebody ? You can get a policy to cover this . Would your business stop working and revenue dries up ? You may be able to cover this . You need to work with an independent agent to compare the rates and benefits of multiple companies as they treat each situation different . An example would be a Physician who might be offered more income during their disability with a particular company . You would need to check to see if you receive benefits if you can not work your current profession versus working at anything . All paychecks need protection . You should have your evaluated and deceide how you would do if you became disabled .
When considering a disability policy to purchase , consider everything , but focus on a couple of things . 1st , the easiest way to find out what the policy would n't cover is spelled out on the exceptions page or not covered section . Straight forward it will state directly what the policy wo n't do . 2nd , read their definition of disability . This may sound strange to read , but the best policies for disabilities have the shortest definitions of disability . Basically when you read the definition , anything beyond that first sentence is something that will reduce your benefit . For example , my disability policy defines total disability as `` not being able to do your current job and under a doctors care . '' That 's it , that 's all . Nothing follows it . It does n't care if I can do my job or another , just my current job . End of story . Also , when you consider a DI policy look at residual coverage . Residual is for partial disabilities where you can work , but not as much as before . It will have a similar definition as total disability , but will define by percentage of work you can or ca n't do . So half time would be 50 % loss . A good residual definition will also determine at what point partial becomes fully . I write this as I am on claim on my own disability policies . I contracted an infection that lead to an amputation . Believe me , a good policy does n't present you with too many hoops or requirements to meet .
Some things to consider when buying disability insurance are : 1 -RRB- Do you want short term disability insurance , or long term disability insurance , or both ? Long term disability is recommended if you can not afford both , as the effects of being unable to work for many months or years is the most devastating . 2 -RRB- How much -LRB- what % -RRB- of your income do you wish to replace ? It usually makes sense to get as much as you can . 3 -RRB- Do you want to spend more to have Own Occupation feature ? If not , you will need to go back to work when you can do any job . With `` own occ '' you will be paid until you can go back to your own occupation . 4 -RRB- What about Residual Disability ? Getting a policy that offers Residual Disability enables you to receive a partial benefit based proportionate to the amount of income lost when able to resume working part time -LRB- unlike Partial Disability , which just pays a set % -RRB- . 5 -RRB- What does your policy cover ? Make sure it covers illness and injury , and review the conditions covered .
You may have group disability insurance available to you through your employer , however , you will find generally find stronger coverage through an individual disability insurance plan . A disability is a sickness or injury which interferes in your ability to work and earn a living . In disability insurance , there 's 3 types of definitions that a policy can use - the definition of disability in the policy is the MOST IMPORTANT factor to look at in a policy . The 3 definitions of disability that a policy can use are true own occupation , modified own occupation , and gainful occupation . True own occupation is the best definition you can have . Gainful occupation is commonly seen in group policies and offers the least coverage . One of the drawbacks of group coverage is if your employment is terminated , you lose the coverage . An individual policy goes with you wherever you go and generally features stronger coverage and a better definition of disability -LRB- a true own occupation or modified own occupation definition -RRB- . You want to buy your disability insurance when you 're healthy - this type of coverage is much more in depth than life and health insurance . If you have a pre-existing condition , you may face an exclusion rider for the condition under a given policy or be postponed for the coverage until it 's resolved . Disability insurance is a very complex type of insurance that has moving parts to policies . If you 're looking to apply for coverage , you want to work with agents that have in-depth knowledge of products , how disability insurance works , and have experience with these programs to help you through the process from start to finish and make the process as seemless as possible . I hope the information is helpful - please feel free to contact me for help and if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
Disability insurance is paycheck insurance that protects your income during periods of disability when you cant work . If you work for a living and you have to work to live , then disability insurance is paycheck insurance to protect your income in case you are unable to work . Disability insurance may be the most important coverage you should consider . Most Americans has 90 days in cash reserves . A disability is a high probability event during your working lifetime .
How important is disability insurance ? How important is the ability to pay your bills if you get sick or hurt and ca n't work ? A person who has passive income to such a degree that work is optional really does n't need disability . While another person , especially one with little to no savings or reserves NEEDS something like a disability policy to cover that risk .
I always say yes because it 's a very important type of coverage to have that many do n't think about . The way I look at disability insurance is it protects one of your greatest assets - your ability to work . If you ca n't work because of an injury or illness , how do you provide income for you and your family . The answer ? Your disability insurance . When you 're buying a disability policy , the MOST important factor in the coverage is the DEFINITION OF DISABILITY . Each policy will use 1 of the 3 definitions : 1 -RRB- True Own Occupation - this says you are considered totally disabled if , solely due to injury or sickness , you are not able to perform the material and substantial duties of your occupation , even if you are at work in another occupation . In short , this is the most favorable definition you can have . 2 -RRB- Modified Own Occupation - this says that you are considered totally disabled if , solely due to injury or sickness , you are not able to perform the material and substantial duties of your occupation . This one is commonly seen in many individual disability insurance policies . 3 -RRB- Gainful Occupation - this says if you are unable to perform the duties of your occupation or any occupation for which you are qualified for by education , training , or experience due to sickness or injury . In short , this is the least favorable definition . This one is commonly seen in group disability insurance policies through an employer and property and casualty insurers that offer disability coverage . There are many moving parts to disability insurance and is not something I would suggest trying to buy on your own - this is a type of coverage you should consult with an experienced independent disability insurance broker about . Factors such as your occupation class , your income level , the state you live in , your medical history , your age , your desired benefit amount and benefit period , if you want cost of living adjustment riders , and other factors all impact your policy 's structure and premiums . In short , they 're very customizable , I hope the information is helpful - please feel free to contact me for help and if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
Disability insurance depends on a number of factors . The cost -LRB- your premium -RRB- is based on a number of factors - the most important being your medical history , your job , and your income - and the policies are very customizable . This is a very important type of coverage to have that many do n't think about and not something you want to be cheap about . It protects one of your greatest assets - your ability to work . If you ca n't work because of an injury or illness , how do you provide income for you and your family . The answer ? Your disability insurance . When you 're buying a disability policy , the MOST important factor in the policy structure is the DEFINITION OF DISABILITY . Each policy will use 1 of the 3 definitions : 1 -RRB- True Own Occupation - this says you are considered totally disabled if , solely due to injury or sickness , you are not able to perform the material and substantial duties of your occupation , even if you are at work in another occupation . In short , this is the most favorable definition you can have . 2 -RRB- Modified Own Occupation - this says that you are considered totally disabled if , solely due to injury or sickness , you are not able to perform the material and substantial duties of your occupation . This one is commonly seen in many individual disability insurance policies . 3 -RRB- Gainful Occupation - this says if you are unable to perform the duties of your occupation or any occupation for which you are qualified for by education , training , or experience due to sickness or injury . In short , this is the least favorable definition . This one is commonly seen in group disability insurance policies through an employer and property and casualty insurers that offer disability coverage . There are many moving parts to disability insurance and is not something I would suggest trying to buy on your own - this is a type of coverage you should consult with an experienced independent disability insurance broker about . I hope the information is helpful - please feel free to contact me for help with your coverage and if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
This is a very important type of coverage to have that many do n't think about . It protects one of your greatest assets - your ability to work . If you ca n't work because of an injury or illness , how do you provide income for you and your family . The answer ? Your disability insurance . When you 're buying a disability policy , the MOST important factor in the policy structure is the DEFINITION OF DISABILITY . Each policy will use 1 of the 3 definitions : 1 -RRB- True Own Occupation - this says you are considered totally disabled if , solely due to injury or sickness , you are not able to perform the material and substantial duties of your occupation , even if you are at work in another occupation . In short , this is the most favorable definition you can have . 2 -RRB- Modified Own Occupation - this says that you are considered totally disabled if , solely due to injury or sickness , you are not able to perform the material and substantial duties of your occupation . This one is commonly seen in many individual disability insurance policies . 3 -RRB- Gainful Occupation - this says if you are unable to perform the duties of your occupation or any occupation for which you are qualified for by education , training , or experience due to sickness or injury . In short , this is the least favorable definition . This one is commonly seen in group disability insurance policies through an employer and property and casualty insurers that offer disability coverage . Disability insurance depends on a number of factors . The cost -LRB- your premium -RRB- is based on a number of factors - the most important being your medical history , your job , and your income - and the policies are very customizable . There are many moving parts to disability insurance and is not something I would suggest trying to buy on your own - this is a type of coverage you should consult with an experienced independent disability insurance broker about . I hope the information is helpful - please feel free to contact me for help with your coverage and if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
Disability insurance protects one of your greatest assets - your ability to work.If you ca n't work because of an injury or illness , how do you provide income for you and your family . The answer ? Your disability insurance . When you 're buying a disability policy , the MOST important factor in the policy structure is theDEFINITION OF DISABILITY.Each policy will use 1 of the 3 definitions : 1 -RRB- True Own Occupation - this says you are considered totally disabled if , solely due to injury or sickness , you are not able to perform the material and substantial duties of your occupation , even if you are at work in another occupation . In short , this is the most favorable definition you can have . 2 -RRB- Modified Own Occupation - this says that you are considered totally disabled if , solely due to injury or sickness , you are not able to perform the material and substantial duties of your occupation . This one is commonly seen in many individual disability insurance policies . 3 -RRB- Gainful Occupation - this says if you are unable to perform the duties of your occupation or any occupation for which you are qualified for by education , training , or experience due to sickness or injury . In short , this is the least favorable definition . This one is commonly seen in group disability insurance policies through an employer and property and casualty insurers that offer disability coverage . Disability insurance depends on a number of factors . The cost -LRB- your premium -RRB- is based on a number of factors - the most important being your medical history , your job , and your income - and the policies are very customizable . There are many moving parts to disability insurance and is not something I would suggest trying to buy on your own - this is a type of coverage you should consult with an experienced independent disability insurance broker about . I hope the information is helpful - please feel free to contact me for help with your coverage and if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
Disability insurance policies typically have a 9 month to one year waiting period before they will cover pregnancy and childbirth . If you are considering having children , that is the time to sign up for the short-term disability . You may also want to consider a policy with a shorter elimination period . The elimination period is how long you must be out of work before the policy starts paying . Many policies have four weeks or longer elimination periods . The policy will only pay as long as the doctor says you need to be out of work , not how long your company allows you to be off work . The policy also only pays a portion of your salary , typically around 50 % to 60 % . If you dont get a disability policy through work , the next best option is often professional associations . You can also get an individual policy through an insurance agent .
end question
start question
life-insurance
What Happens To A Life Insurance Policy With No Beneficiary ?
If there is no stated primary beneficiary , nor contingent beneficiary alive when the insured passes , the proceeds of a policy would become part of the estate and subject to probate . If the beneficiary was alive longer than the insured , the proceeds would go into the beneficiaires estate and subject to probate regarding their estate .
Of course ! You have the option to put on primary beneficiaries , contingent beneficiaries -LRB- in case the primary predeceases the insured -RRB- , and even tertiary beneficiaries if you 'd like -LRB- in case the primary and contingent beneficiaries predecease the insured -RRB- . Each level -LRB- primary , contingent , and tertiary -RRB- can have more than one beneficiary . You also want to make sure to designate what happens to a beneficiary 's share if he/she predeceases the insured -LRB- especially if there is more than 1 beneficiary - e.g. does it go to the other beneficiary ? to the estate ? to someone else ? etc. -RRB- The other thing you want to make sure of is that the policy structure does not violate the `` Goodman Triangle '' -LRB- named after a court case -RRB- . The Goodman Triangle , in short , states that 2 of the 3 parties of a life insurance contract must be the same to avoid certain tax consequences -LRB- same owner and beneficiary with a different insured or same owner and insured with a different beneficiary -RRB- . If you want to place more than one beneficiary on the policy , the owner and insured would have to be the same person to not violate the Goodman Triangle . When the Goodman Triangle is violated , the situation can result in the monies being subject to estate taxes or gift tax consequences . If a policy is owned by a trust such as an Irrevocable Life Insurance Trust -LRB- ILIT -RRB- , the insured and beneficiary will be the trust and the insured will be the person who 's life the trust was created for . The trust would illustrate all of the payout structure scenarios when the insured dies and a claim is made on the policy . I hope the information is helpful - please feel free to contact me for assistance with your coverage and if you have any further questions . Thanks very much .
Only you can answer this question of Life Insurance being essential . For those of us who see the financial loss in families who lost a parent or spouse , Life Insurance relieves financial stress allowing you to take care of what is most important , your family . YES , I believe life insurance is essential . Life Insurance provides you or rather your beneficiary with monies otherwise would not be available . You need to look at what is important in your life , who depends on you , your family , perhaps your business and look at what will happen if you are not there `` tomorrow '' . What will happen financially and how would you relieve that financial stress .
what happens to my life insurance when I retire ? If the life insurance is provided by your employer it will depend on what they offer . It might end immediately , it might carry on into retirement or you might be offered to carve out an individual policy from the group plan . There is n't a single answer as plans are different . If you `` own '' the policy what happens to your life insurance is what ever you want to have happen to it .
Im going to answer your question this way : Im going to describe for you the kind of person who buys life insurance and is really glad they did . They are happy with the policy they bought ; they are happy with the process they went through to get that policy ; and they are happy to tell all their friends and neighbors about how happy they are with the purchase :-RRB- . These are the qualities of a happy life insurance shopper : Quality number one : the happy life insurance shopper dares to care . Look , life insurance is not for you , right ? Its for your beneficiaries . And frankly , some people could care less about what happens after they die . I mean , to put it bluntly , they are dead , right ? Isnt that what it comes down to ? But for other people , the difference between being alive and being dead is not that great . I mean , you have spent a lifetime building something of value . Your marriage . Your family . Your business . Charitable causes worthy of your support . All these folks have become dependent on you . If you die , they could lose their economic foundation . But if you have insurance on your life , then they dont have to miss a dime . Life can go on in style for your spouse , your children , your business partners , your employees , and all the needy people that are being helped by the charities you support . If you care about these people , then life insurance can make sure life goes on for them , even when your life does not go on for you . Quality number two : the happy life insurance shopper understands that the time to buy is now . Everyone knows we all die sometime . For most of us , though , death is something that happens to someone else - until it strikes home . Maybe someone close to us gets really sick , or we ourselves have a brush with death that wakes us up . But up to that point , we just dont want to think about it . We also convince ourselves that if we stay in shape , eat right , manage our stress , and maintain a good attitude , we can forestall the inevitable . The fact of the matter is that if we really thought about it , there are a whole slew of hazards that are entirely beyond our control . Heres a few that come to mind : Freak household accidents . Violent crime . Natural disasters . Car crashes . Of course we all say that odds are against any of these happening to us . We even say to ourselves that we can afford to wait and buy a policy next year or the year after , so we can qualify for a better rate . But in the meantime , things can happen . And they do . All the time . Unexpectedly . If your time comes before you have a policy in force , then your beneficiaries lose out . You really cant afford to die until that coverage is in place . Quality number three : the happy life insurance shopper wants a guaranteed return on his or her money . OK . Now you know you need to get coverage in force as soon as possible because you never know when your time will come . The next logical question is : for how long do you keep the coverage in force ? Easy answer : for as long as you live . You know at some point you will have your last day on this earth , so that means you know for sure your beneficiary will get their money when your time comes ... ... as long as the policy is still in force . That means you need permanent coverage . The policy should last as long as you do . Doesnt permanent coverage cost more then term coverage ? Yes . Isnt term good for short-term needs ? Yes . Can you buy term and then purchase permanent when you can afford it ? Yes . Does it make sense to buy term now and then convert to a permanent product ? Yes . The thing is , if you dont take a long-term strategy , then you wont be guaranteed a payout . If you do take a long-term strategy , then you will . Guaranteed by a top-flight financial institution . Quality number four : the happy life insurance shopper knows what hes getting into . When you buy a house , do you expect to write a check for the purchase price agreed on ? Of course you do . Same when you buy a business , book a cruise , and buy a pair of shoes . We even demand that a grocery store clerk honors the price on the shelf if an item has been mislabeled . Life insurance should operate the same way . Hard to believe , isnt it ? All too often , a broker will submit an application on the hope and prayer that the applicant will be approved at the rate quoted . We wont know what the price really will be until you are approved . Yes , right , but if you go through full disclosure on a preliminary basis , you can become confident in what that price will be . The broker has to prequalify you and present carriers with thorough and accurate quote information upfront . They can then commit to a price , contingent upon information obtained in underwriting not contradicting the preliminary disclosures . You can then be sure of what you are buying . If you dont get prequalified , then you cant be sure . Simple as that . Quality number five : the happy life insurance shopper wants to be heard . There are a few companies out there who let consumers call them and buy policies . Thats nice for a tiny percentage of the zillions of men and women who need coverage . The rest of us need personalized service and a guide to walk us through the vast marketplace of potential carriers . Only one or two of them will be the best for us , and that broker has to lead the way to their doorstep . But life insurance distribution can be pretty rigid . The broker usually does not have direct access to the carriers . He or she must work through carrier general agencies who act as wholesalers of their products . So there is you , your broker , his or her general agent , and their carrier . I am sure you have played that telephone game where one person in the line passes down a message , and by the time it reaches the end , its completely different . Its the brokers job to make sure all information about you that is passed along the underwriting channels remains consistent and is fairly assessed . He or she is your advocate , and must be prepared to carry your cause over any and all hurdles that pop up in underwriting . And they do pop up . All the time . If you have been properly prequalified for coverage , then the bottom line is this : you should be approved at the rate quoted unless information arises in underwriting that is substantially different from the information that was disclosed on a preliminary basis . Your broker is your advocate to make sure that happens . In my humble opinion , this is how you buy life insurance . If you follow this path , you will be one happy camper :-RRB-
This depends on what is happening with the annuity when someone dies and what type of annuity -LRB- owner or annuitant driven -RRB- we 're talking about . For an annuity that is not paying income and the owner is the annuitant -LRB- i.e. the type of contract wo n't matter -RRB- , the cash value of the annuity will be paid to the named beneficiary -LRB- ies -RRB- in the contract . If the annuity have been annuitized -LRB- i.e. is paying an income stream -RRB- the chosen option will determine what happens . For life only annuity payments , the payments will stop and no further money will be paid out . For period certain annuities , the income will continue until the period certain has ended . For life with a refund -LRB- installment or lump sum cash -RRB- than the refund will pay the the named beneficiary -LRB- ies -RRB- until the cash value of the annuity has been paid out in full to the beneficiary -LRB- ies -RRB- .
Think of a contingent -LRB- beneficiary or owner -RRB- as a backup to your primary policy beneficiary or owner . At the time of application , you general assign the beneficiary or beneficiaries as the primary persons that would suffer economic loss at your demise . But what would happen if the beneficiaries also perished with the insured , then the contingency or back up beneficiaries would be next in line for the death benefit proceeds .
A contingent in life insurance is a back up beneficiary or a back up policy owner . The policy owner has the option of naming a primary beneficiary -LRB- or beneficiaries -RRB- and may also wish to have contingent beneficiaries . Tertiary beneficiaries are the back up to the back up . While it may seem like overkill to have such layers , bear in mind that many contracts will remain unchanged for decades , despite best efforts for life insurance professionals to engage clients in policy reviews every three years . In that time , policy owners desires may have changed about who they want to receive proceeds , divorces happen , beneficiaries predecease insureds , etc. .
Video Transcript : Today 's question is : What does term life insurance cover ? Remember first of all , if we 're using term , it only covers that period in time . If you buy a 20-year term , as an example , it 's only going to cover you for 20 years . If you buy $ 1/2 million dollars of death benefit , you 'll have it for as long as you pay your premiums on time ; you 'll have that coverage . What is it good for ? How does it cover ? It 's going to cover anything that you think that you need . Let 's say , at $ 1/2 million , you had a mortgage at $ 250,000 , you had credit card debt , you had car debt , you had educational debt . You want to cover that so that your spouse or your beneficiaries will not be actually saddled with your debt if something happened to you . When I 'm looking at , ` What does term life insurance ? ' it 's the time zone , how long do I have , what obligations would I have , and how can I relieve my beneficiaries from any of those obligations if something happens to me ?
Life insurance proceeds can be taken by creditors if the proceeds go into the estate of the deceased insured person . This happens if the beneficiary of the policy is named `` the estate '' or if the persons listed as beneficiaries are no longer alive . If the beneficiary is a living person , the creditors for the deceased can not go after the insurance proceeds from the beneficiary . If it is the beneficiary who owes debt , creditors may try to access the life insurance money that the beneficiary was left .
If the primary beneficiary dies prior to the insured a few different things can happen . First , when the primary beneficiary dies , the next in line or contingent beneficiary would be next to pay . If a third or tertiary beneficiary was named , then they would be next in line for death benefit proceeds if both primary and contingent beneficiaries die prior to the insured . If there is no contingent beneficiaries listed after the primary and the insured dies , then the death proceeds would be left to the estate . This is not the ideal situation because it can cause the proceeds to be taxed with the estate that are normally tax free . It also ties up the death proceeds up in probate court instead of paying directly to the beneficiary tax free .
A retirement plan really is an extension of a financial plan.There are two parts . Your financial planner may be qualified to help you with both as a retirement planner or work with a lifestyle planner . The first step is determining what you want to do when you retire . How do you define retirement success ? Deciding when you will slow down and what you will do with your time - your lifestyle can be a challenge . Once you have an idea what retirement success looks like for you then your financial planner can determine what it will cost to make what you want to happen happen . The next step is to design a plan to make it happen . Then take action and follow up . If you have further questions , or feel that I could be of assistance , please do not hesitate to contact me . If you would like to work with a local Retirement Planner , you could start with a Google search . For example , if you search for : retirement planner Halifax or retirement planning Halifax , my name , along with several others , will come up . You can use the same method to find Retirement Planners in your community
What happens when your term life insurance ends ? What will happen is this : you will take out your checkbook , remember what your premium used to be , breathe heavy sigh , and then make your check payable for a much larger amount . In my career I have seen renewal premiums literally 10 times the original rate . Yes , 10 times . Doesnt always happen , but it does happen . And you will not know how high the increase will be until you get your renewal notice . They dont tell you in advance . Why would an insurance company slam you on the renewal ? Several factors could be involved . One is that they are a little bit concerned about their reserves . They need to bulk up . Another could be that they feel the credit market is a little bit tight . So they need to store up some money in case they cant go out and get enough new money . Perhaps they feel the whole block of term business is not profitable . Maybe there is a big fat insurance company lurking in the wings ready to buy them , and they consider the term business to be a liability . So they will jack up the rates to get rid of a lot of policies . -LRB- To tell you the truth , I need to learn a little bit more about this last reason myself . Most people keep paying term premiums , dont die , and then drop their policies anyway . So the insurance company has received a bunch of money without paying any out . Why not keep the renewal rates more reasonable to hold onto these customers ? -RRB- But the net result of these high renewals is that the only people who hold on to their policies are people who really need the coverage , and feel they have no other option . They feel that their medical history or lifestyle risks would make them ineligible for coverage , or make a new policy too expensive . The fact of the matter , though , is that they may indeed qualify for a better rate elsewhere . They should get prequalified and really see what the market has to offer . They may very well be surprised . And if they dont get a better deal , then the term conversion rider in their policy may be an option . As long as they are not over the maximum conversion age , they could lock into permanent rates . And they dont have to convert the entire face amount at once : it could be done in stages , to better manage cash flow . Thanks for asking . Want to learn more ? Review my blog at planrisklive.com .
This is a very interesting question because life insurance carriers allow for a lot of flexibility in beneficiary designations . For example , you have the primary beneficiary . This person -LRB- or entity , such as a corporation or trust -RRB- will get the money when the insured dies . What if I unfortunately the primary beneficiary is not alive -LRB- or in business -RRB- when the insured dies ? That is why you can designate a contingent beneficiary . This beneficiary will get the money in those exact circumstances - when the primary beneficiary is not available . What if you wanted to name multiple primary or contingent beneficiaries ? That can be done . Do they have to get equal shares ? No . As a matter of fact , especially when the contingent beneficiary is children , parents often do not apportion the benefit equally . What if you want to set up successor beneficiaries along bloodlines ? Such as your child , but if your child is not available , then your childs child ? This can also be done . Make sure you discuss this with your estate planning attorney . What if you want to make the beneficiaries minors ? Not a good idea . An insurance company will not release money to a minor . You will need to do some estate planning to secure that money .
Saving for retirement as a 30 year old you have an advantage over a 50 year old you have time . First thing to do is start saving regularly now . You should take advantage of tax deferral plans to get the full effect of compound growth . In Canada that mean Registered Retirement Savings Plans -LRB- RRSPs -RRB- and Tax-Free Saving Accounts -LRB- TFSAs -RRB- . If you have an employer that will contribute match your contributions take advantage - that is free money . Financial or retirement planner can help you determine what your specific portfolio should look like , depending on your risk tolerance and time horizon . Financial planning , Retirement planning and Estate planning are all integrated . What you do with one often affects the other . The first step in planning for a Good Retirement is to start saving regularly as early as you can . The challenge often is that retirement seems so far away that it is easy to put off . Now that you have started saving , what are you saving for ? Deciding what a successful retirement means to you can be quite challenging . What do you want to do for the rest of your life ? A lifestyle planner can help . There is some information on this topic under retirement on my website www.jpw.ca if you are interested . Now that you have a basic idea of what your successful retirement means , the numbers can be `` crunched '' . Your retirement or financial planner can fine tune your retirement planning to make what you want to happen , happen . What particular investment vehicles you should use , depends on your individual situation . Be sure to take advantage of retirement plans that are tax deferred -LRB- in Canada , RRSPs and TFSAs -RRB- . Tax deferral allows you to get the full effect of compound growth . If you have further questions , or feel that I could be of assistance , please do not hesitate to contact me .
Sometimes life just happens . Your make plans and they change . Life insurance policies allow you to assign beneficiaries to receive your life insurance proceeds in the event of your demise . But sometimes you may want a back up beneficiary , in case the primary beneficiary has died or that relationships change . Thats a contingency plan . Thats a contingent beneficiary .
New York and some other states are known as `` divorce revocation states . '' There is a provision in the N.Y. Estates Powers and Trusts code that automatically revokes an ex-spouse as beneficiary of a life insurance policy . Under certain circumstances this little known provision can wreak havoc on the lives of a surviving parent and children when an ex-spouse dies . The law states that your spouse is automatically revoked as beneficiary of any life insurance policy as soon as you are divorced , even if you do n't want them to be . There is a way this can be addressed , but it requires that the policyholder take action . Let 's assume your husband has a $ 500,000 life insurance policy and you are the beneficiary . You are getting divorced and you both agree that you will work together on any issues involving your children . Your marriage is bad , but you still work together as parents . Your husband says that he will leave you as beneficiary of his life insurance policy until the kids are self supporting . If he just `` leaves '' you as the beneficiary , you will no longer be the beneficiary as soon as you divorce . The state of New York has determined that by the act of the divorce itself you are no longer legally his beneficiary . If he dies without having taken any action , the contingent beneficiary will get the proceeds , not you . In order to fix this , your now ex-husband needs to complete a beneficiary change form and make you the beneficiary again , this time listing your relationship as `` ex-spouse . '' It 's a small technicality but not addressing it could be financially catastrophic . By naming you as his beneficiary and ex-spouse after the divorce , you are now legally the beneficiary again . I saw one case where the wife `` took over '' her ex-husbands life insurance policy to make sure the policy stayed in effect and she remained the beneficiary . She had been paying the premium for many years when her ex-husband passed away . When she filed the death claim she was told that because the beneficiary designation predated the divorce she had been revoked as beneficiary . The benefit was paid to someone else . If you are divorced and you or your ex-spouse 's life insurance predates the divorce , it 's critical that you find out if yours is a divorce revocation state . If it is , update your beneficiaries . I apologize for the very long post , but there are many women -LRB- and men too ! -RRB- that need to be aware of this .
Ideally planning for retirement should start as soon as we start working . Why ? Chances are we will make it to retirement and be there longer than we are in the traditional workforce . In short , the sooner you start saving the more you can take advantage of compound interest . A pilot has a checklist to be sure nothing is left out . I suggest you use one to help plan for your retirement , it will save you time and money . It is a shameless plug , but you will find one at www.RetirementPlanningCheckList.ca that you can use as a guide . Here is brief overview : First you need to decide , what a successful retirement means to you and then choose a retirement date as a focus point . Next determine , what it will cost to fund your retirement goals . Do a retirement budget , etc. . Once you determine the cost , how much you need to accumulate and need to save can be determined . Examine and co-ordinate the various sources of retirement income . Review your employee benefits to determine what you will need to supplement with personal plans . If you are self employed , you will need to address what is going to happen to , and with , your business . Succession planning needs to be addressed . Ensure your estate plan is up to date with what you want to happen after you are gone - will , beneficiaries for insurance and retirement account , etc. . Keep your spouse informed and be sure to have a Personal Record Organizer that provides the location of your important documents . Choose a financial planner to assist you . Take action , get started . If you have further questions , or feel that I could be of assistance , please do not hesitate to contact me . There is additional information on retirement planning and business succession planning on my website . www.jpw.ca
Financial planning , Retirement planning and Estate planning are all integrated . What you do with one often affects the other . The first step in planning for a Good Retirement is to start saving regularly as early as you can . The challenge often is that retirement seems so far away that it is easy to put off . Now that you have started saving , what are you saving for ? Deciding what a successful retirement means to you can be quite challenging . What do you want to do for the rest of your life ? A lifestyle planner can help . There is addtional information on this topic under retirement on my website www.jpw.ca if you are interested . Now that you have a basic idea of what your successful retirement means , the numbers can be `` crunched '' . Your retirement or financial planner can fine tune your retirement planning to make what you want to happen , happen . What particular investment vehicles you should use , depends on your individual situation . Be sure to take advantage of retirement plans that are tax deferred -LRB- in Canada , RRSPs and TFSAs -RRB- . Tax deferral allows you to get the full effect of compound growth . If you have further questions , or feel that I could be of assistance , please do not hesitate to contact me . If you would like to work with a local Retirement Planner , you could start with a Google search . For example if you search for : retirement planner Halifax or retirement planning Halifax , my name along with several others will come up . You can use the same method to find Retirement Planners in your community .
Not normally . Your home insurance was designed to repair or replace your home if something covered happens to it . Usually , anything below ground is n't covered . Now , if your home is destroyed and the insurance company rebuilds your home , they will usually pay to hook your sewer up , but not to repair or replace the pipes . if you think about the things that can happen to a home , a sewer pipe really ca n't have those things happen to it . My big question here is : what the heck happened to your sewer pipes that you want covered ? Insurance is designed to repair damage that is sudden and accidental . There are n't many things you can do to a sewer pipe that are sudden and accidental . About the only thing I can think of is if someone working underground hits a sewer pipe and breaks it . In this case the company working there is responsible for any damage they may cause .
end question
start question
medicare-insurance
When To Sign Up For Medicare If I Am Still Working ?
If you are still working , you should still sign up for Medicare in the three months before your 65th birthday . If you do n't want to take your Part B Medicare benefits yet , you can simply return the card provided in your packet , telling them that you do not want Part B at this time . However , if you take Part B , your group plan will be your primary insurance plan . Very few people turn down Part A.
Your initial open enrollment period for Medicare Part B occurs when you 're turning 65 years old . It 's a 7-month window that starts 3 months before your birth month and ends 3 months after . If you enroll in during the 3 months prior to your birth month , then your effective date will be the 1st of your birth month . If you enroll during your birth month , your effective date will be the 1st day of the following month . If you enroll 1 month after you turn 65 , then your effective date will be 2 months after you sign up . If you enroll 2 months or 3 months after you turn 65 , then your effective date will be 3 months after you sign up . To avoid being hit with any delays , it is ideal to sign up during the 3 months prior to your birth month so it starts the month you turn 65 . Note - when you enroll in Medicare Part B , it activates your 6-month open enrollment period to buy a Medicare Supplement -LRB- Medigap -RRB- policy . Medigap plans covers what Medicare Part B does n't cover . This is the best time to buy a Medigap plan because you can secure any Medigap plan without any medical underwriting . This means that you can buy a plan regardless of what your medical history is . You also have the `` general enrollment period '' available to you if you do not sign up when you first turned 65 . This enrollment period for Medicare Part B occurs from January 1st through March 31st of each year . During this time , you can sign up for Medicare Part B if you did not do so when you turned 65 and do not have a special enrollment period available to you . Please note , if you sign up during the general enrollment period for Medicare Part B , the effective date for the coverage will be July 1st . You may also be subject to a late enrollment penalty if you enroll in Medicare Part B after your initial open enrollment period - calculated as a 10 % penalty for each 12-month period you could have had Part B and went without it . You may also have a `` special enrollment period '' available to you . A common scenario when this occurs is when someone comes off of group coverage through an employer . The effective date of your Medicare Part B coverage would be the first of the following month after you sign up . I hope the information is helpful - please feel free to contact me for help with your Medicare Supplement plan needs and if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
You can postpone signing up for Medicare if you prefer to - most people who do this are still working and on their employer group health plan . Even if you 're still working and on group coverage , once you retire/leave your group plan , you 'll have a special enrollment period to sign up for Part A and Part B -LRB- a.k.a. Original Medicare -RRB- . Part A is premium-free for most people so they 'll start this one up regardless when they turn 65 . If you 're not on a group plan , keeping an individual health plan will be very expensive . If you want to have healthcare coverage and are 65 or older , a combination of Original Medicare -LRB- Parts A & B -RRB- , a Medicare supplement plan , and a Part D plan will offer a very predictable healthcare expense structure .
If you signed up for Medicare Part A & Part B during your initial enrollment period , then your effective date will be either the first of the month you turn 65 -LRB- this is the case for most individuals -RRB- or 2 or 3 months after -LRB- if you signed up after the month you turned 65 -RRB- . If you decided to wait because you were still working -LRB- e.g. on a group health plan through your employer -RRB- , then you may be eligible for a special enrollment period and set up an effective date for the first of the following month -LRB- you 'll likely need to complete the Part B enrollment at your local social security office -RRB- . If you decided to wait on signing up for Part B and do not have a special enrollment period , then you would be looking at signing up during the general enrollment period -LRB- January 1-March 31 of each year -RRB- . If you 're signing up during this window , then your effective date would be July 1 .
The answer to your question has many parts to the final answer . Let 's assume I just got married and my phone has been ringing incessantly with insurance agents pedaling their life insurance policies . My wife and I know it just makes good sense to have life insurance-my policy covering her and vice versa . The question is given my occupation and I do not want her to work how do I plan `` how much '' life insurance ? My employer can provide $ 50,000 for me and I am not taxed as long as I stay at or below $ 50,000 . So from a cost standpoint that $ 50,000 is a given . I hope to have two children to keep my wife happy and raising kids . We know it takes a huge amount to just raise the kids much less educate them . We also know if I am smart at some point in my life I will be smart to have saved enough money to get out of the life insurance market and have savings to pay any funeral costs that may arise . So on today 's date I know my `` insurance needs '' is at the highest point it will ever be assuming the two children are born and then we can avoid the `` steamy ` Saturday and be careless and now the third is here . So if I assume the first child will be born in two years that means in year 20 I have to have `` college expense '' funds '' . Is it a better investment to use life insurance or it better to open a mutual fund aggressive growth and invest a $ 100 pewr month for the next 20 years ? Let 's assume the second child in born in our fourth year of marriage . Now the same decision outlined above is with me again . What is often overlooked is the assumption is I will remain healthy and my income will increase each year . What happens if I become ill and diabled for two years ? What disablity insurance plans do I have ? Do they cover my `` own occupation '' or if I can flip hamburgers I am not considered disabled . In order to make an informed decisions you have to consider all the options . Is it best for me to take a Gerber Life insurance policy on each child for $ 20,000 , which then doubles , at their age 18 ? If I am confident that I can save sufficiently for the next 30 years I may decide to take a $ 1,000,000 30 year term policy but if I am not confident of my ability to save then I am sure going to use the `` dollar cost averging '' advantages of having a `` cash value '' policy and a mutual fund in the aggressive growth and invest $ 100 per month . I ho ; pe this helps you to see the complexity of your question .
You can sign up for Medicare Part B at the same time that you sign up for Medicare Part A , or you can wait to sign up for Part B until you have stopped working and no longer have group coverage . If you are receiving Social Security benefits , you will be signed up for Part A and B automatically just before your 65th birthday .
It is pretty common and I dare say universal that a policy cancellation takes place at midnignt of the cancellation date . Reinstatements are timed at 12:01 AM . I have to be honest with you , If the fire occured at 12:50 AM and the payment was not processed until 11:00 AM , some eleven hours and ten minutes later , I would be prepared to deal with a pretty thorough investigation of the loss . Many companies require a `` No Loss Statement '' signed by the insured when payment is accepted to reinstate a lapsed policy , others may not .
If you are age 65 when you receive Social Security benefits , you will automatically be signed up for Medicare at age 65 . If you are not yet receiving Social Security benefits , you can still sign up for Medicare benefits at age 65 . When relying on your spouse 's eligibility , you can get Medicare at age 65 if your spouse is at least age 62 .
If you are age 65 and have begun receiving Social Security benefits , you will automatically be signed up for Medicare Part A and B . You can sign up for an Advantage Plan or get Medicare Part D -LRB- or other letters -RRB- at that time , as well . You sign up for Medicare by visiting your local Social Security office , going to Medicare.gov -LRB- where you will be directed to a website where you can sign up -RRB- , or calling 1-800-MEDICARE .
You can also go to the website for the Social Security Administration at www.SSA.gov for information and to sign up . One important thing to remember when signing up for Medicare in Texas is that you have a one time open enrollment period when you first sign up for Medicare Part B . This means there are no health underwriting questions and you can select any Medicare Supplement plan available . Medicare Part A & B only covers about 80 % of your medical costs . The Medicare Supplement is designed to cover the remaining 20 % or some variation depending on what plan you go with . We have helped many clients through the Medicare Supplement process in Texas . You can compare Texas Medicare Supplement Plans instantly on our website at SummitMedigap.com or give us a call at 1-888-407-8664 .
If you have a settlement offer that you can not accept , dont sign the release . That may mean that the company will not deliver a check for damages but it is important to sign the release only when you are satisfied . When you refuse to sign the release the adjusters supervisor will become involved . If the adjustment is still unsatisfactory the claim will continue to get elevated until it reaches the executives of the company . If the adjustment is still unsatisfactory you can either sue or arbitrate .
This is the question millions of Americans will be asking themselves over the next few months and it is a crucial one . There are many factors involved in your decision to purchase individual major medical insurance . Some crucial ones are ; 1 -RRB- Will my or my family 's expected income for 2015 fall in the range that would qualify me/us for a premium subsidy and possible cost sharing reductions for coverage purchased through the government health insurance marketplace -LRB- 100 % to 400 % of the Federal Poverty Level -RRB- ? 2 -RRB- If I do qualify for a subsidy is it enough to influence my buying decision ? Premium subsidies peak in the 250 % to 300 % of the Federal Poverty Level zone and decline rapidly from there . For example , an individual making $ 40,000 / yr would technically qualify for a subsidy but the dollar amount would be small enough that you may decide its not worth the trouble -LRB- this may be especially true in states with limited carrier choices in the government marketplace -RRB- . 3 -RRB- Are the doctors , hospitals and pharmacies I want to use in-network providers with the health plan I am considering enrolling in ? 4 -RRB- What is the coverage for prescription drugs in the plan I am considering ? Are the prescription drugs I am already taking covered by the formulary of the health plan I am considering ? And , if they are , at what level are they covered and might I be forced to revisit the steps that led me to finding the prescription medication that works for me and my health condition before my new health plan would cover them ? 4 -RRB- What coverage does the health plan I am considering offer outside of my home area ? Can I plug into a national network of providers wherever I might be or is my coverage largely restricted to my home service area ? 5 -RRB- If I am diagnosed with a serious illness like cancer will the health plan I am consider cover services from providers like M.D. Anderson , the Mayo Clinic and other nationally recognized centers of excellence ? The consumer can no longer just assume that this will be the case . While these questions do n't cover all the questions a person should ask , if you get the answer you like for the questions I 've posed you will have a much higher probability of being satisfied with the health insurance plan you select . For the vast majority of people , you will be better served to seek out the services of an experienced health insurance agent who is familiar with the insurance carriers available in your market and who can help guide you to the plan the best suits your needs whether it is inside or outside of the government health insurance marketplaces .
You can sign up for Medicare online at medicare.gov . If you are nearing age 65 , you can sign up in the three months before or after the month of your 65th birthday . If you would rather sign up by phone , you can call 1-800-MEDICARE -LRB- 1-800-633-4227 -RRB- . Or you can go to your local Social Security Office to sign up for Medicare .
There a many questions a consumer should ask when considering their health insurance choices . Some questions will be unique to an individual 's current or anticipated healthcare needs and are difficult to address in this forum . However , in the era of ObamaCare , here are some general questions I think any health insurance buyer should be asking when looking at different health insurance carriers and different health insurance plans . 1 -RRB- Would I qualify for a meaningful subsidy of my health insurance premiums if I purchase health insurance through a Federal or State health insurance marketplace ? 2 -RRB- What is the deductible and out-of-pocket maximum financial exposure I would have under a given policy ? 3 -RRB- Does the policy have copayments for visits to doctors , prescription drugs , urgent care and emergency room visits or are all or some of these commonly used services subject to the policy 's deductible and co-insurance ? 4 -RRB- Are the doctors and hospitals I want to use in-network providers for the health insurance plan I am considering ? 5 -RRB- Are the prescription drugs I am taking covered under the formulary for the health insurance plan I am considering and , if so , what is the level of coverage and will I be subject to step therapy to gain access to a prescription drug I am already using successfully ? 6 -RRB- What coverage , if any , will I have if I choose to go outside of my health plan 's provider network ? 7 -RRB- Are there any geographic service area restrictions to where my coverage applies ? 8 -RRB- Am I required to get a referral froma primary care physician before I can access care from a specialist or receive impatient or outpatient diagnostic services and treatment ? 9 -RRB- How financially stable is the health insurance carrier I am considering ? This is especially important if you are considering enrollment in one of the new Co-Op health plans created under ObamaCare . Obtaining answers to these questions that are satisfactory to you will go a long ways towards assuring that you get the kind of coverage that best suits your needs . Seeking out the guidance of an experienced independent health insurance broker is generally these best way for people to get the answers to these and other questions they might have . Representatives of specific insurance companies can only explain their company 's products to you and , of course , they will think that their company 's plans are the best . The so called , navigators available to help people purchase coverage through the government marketplaces are rarely licensed insurance professionals , have little depth of knowledge in the industry and are generally reading from a script or are providing you generic answers that they have been provided with .
You can buy into Medicare after age 65 . There is a general enrollment period between January 1 and March 31 of each year during which you can sign up for Medicare . If you are not eligible for free Medicare Part A , the premium you pay may be higher than if you had signed up at age 65 . However , if you did not sign up for Medicare Part A and/or B due to being covered by a group health plan , you can enroll without penalty in the 8 month period after your quit working or the group coverage ends .
You should sign up for Medicare three months before reaching age 65 , even if you plan to delay receiving retirement benefits because you are working . Otherwise , your Medicare medical insurance , as well as prescription drug coverage , could be delayed , and you could be charged higher premiums . You can sign up for Medicare even if you are not ready to start receiving retirement benefits . You can opt out of receiving cash retirement benefits now once you are in the online application . Then you can apply online for retirement benefits later . Source for above : medicare.gov This also means you can sign up for a Medicare Advantage Plan or a Medicare Supplement and/or a Prescription drug plan . If you have any questions contact me or go to the site
Video Transcript : Hello everyone , I 'm Steve Savant , syndicated financial columnist and host of the weekly online talk show , Steve Savant 's Money : The Name of the Game . I 'm answering questions from insurancelibrary.com and today 's question is , `` Is buying term and investing the difference better than cash value life insurance ? '' Well , when I 'm looking at buying term and investing the difference , what am I investing it in ? And is that a risk area ? And if I 'm looking at permanent insurance , am I looking at guarantees and guaranteed returns ? Am I looking at using indexing ? Am I looking at risk-based insurance , like variable ? When I put those two together , I want to look at both of those plans and to see which one comes out the best . We have programs that we 've developed that will measure , is it better to buy term insurance and invest the difference in whatever product line you want to think of , whether it 's mutual funds or ETF 's . Or is it better to keep it inside a contract for the tax deferral and the possible tax-free income ? You can compare those things and always know which way to go with a simple program that will measure it for you . Well , that 's our consumer question for today . If you have any questions , submit them to www.insurancelibrary.com .
For most people , Medicare Part A will come automatically on the 1st day of the month you turn age 65 . However , it is a good idea to go to the Social Security website at SSA.gov / medicare / or visit your local Social Security office to make sure . You should contact them 3 months prior to turning 65 . You will also want to sign up for Part B at the same time . If you are still working and on a group plan , your company may still offer benefits and you could delay your Part B. Medicare Part A & B do not cover all your medical expenses . A lot of people get a Medicare Supplement plan to cover the difference . With the right Medicare Supplement plan you could have very little out of pocket expenses . A independent agent that specializes in Medicare can be a big help in finding that plan that will best suit your needs .
Many people get into the insurance business thinking of it as a job . It 's not a job . It 's a business . If you go into business without a solid business plan and money to invest in your business you will fail . You have to learn the products and benefits you are selling . You have to be a professional person and a great communicator . But most of all ... you need people who want to talk to you . And that takes a lot of work or a lot of marketing money . There are also a lot of sharks out there that want to grab new agents and chew them up . They sign agents up for the worst deal imaginable where they could never win . The biggest red flag are the `` free lead '' scammers . They will sign agents up with horrible commission levels to get to the FREE leads . The free leads are worthless junk . You may as well be working the phone book . But if an agent does all the work and makes a sale ... he makes a tiny fraction and the guy who signed him up makes all the real money . It 's a racket , not a career builder . Just look on Craig 's List or any other free advertising place to find these scammers . If you enter the insurance business , make certain that you choose a reputable company with a good manager that you feel good about . If they make it sound too easy to make big money quickly ... watch out ! If they advertise on Craig 's List or offer free leads ... hold on to your wallet !
Most people will receive Medicare Part A without paying a premium . If you , or your spouse , paid Medicare taxes during your working years you may not have to pay a premium for Part A. Others will be required to pay up to $ 441 in 2013 . The Medicare Part B premium for 2013 for most people is $ 105 . If you fail to sign up for Part B when you are first eligible you may be required to pay a late enrollment penalty of up to 10 % per year for every year you were eligible but failed to sign up . Higher income individuals may pay a penalty . In determining your penalty premium , Medicare considers your income from prior tax returns -LRB- from 2 years ago -RRB- . The penalty plus base premium is graduated based on income and can be as much as $ 335 in 2013 .
end question
start question
life-insurance
How Do I Get Life Insurance On My Husband ?
In order to acquire for insurance coverage on someone else , first you need to have insurable interest . You would have insurable interest in your husband . Next you need to have their permission , so you husband would need to sign the application as the life insured . You could be the beneficiary and own the policy . You would have total control once he gives permission to be the life insured . An independent life insurance broker , representing several companies , could help you find the right policy at the right price . If you have further questions , or feel that I could be of assistance , please do not hesitate to contact me.If you would like to work with a local life insurance broker , you could start with a Google search . For example , if you search for : life insurance broker Halifax or life insurance agent Halifax , my name , along with several others , will come up . You can use the same method to find a life insurance broker in your community .
Securing coverage on your husband is like securing coverage on anyone else - you must have an insurable interest to buy a policy on another life as well as their consent to take out a life insurance policy on them . From there , there 's different types of programs to consider -LRB- term vs. universal vs. whole life and whether you 're ok with taking an exam or are strictly against it - you 're generally paying much higher rates with non-medical policies and the face amounts under a single policy are going to be limited -RRB- The risk class your husbandqualifiesfor determines the final premiums that you 'll pay -LRB- in addition to his age and if he uses any tobacco products -RRB- - please note , the risk class from company ABC may not be the same risk class he gets from company XYZ . Every company has their own underwriting guidelines and views risk on medical histories differently . I recommend consulting with a knowledgeable , experienced life insurance broker who can shop the case for you and review multiple carriers ' programs as well as complete a life insurance needs analysis -LRB- if you would like to determine how much coverage you need and how long you need it for - you can also look at a combination of benefits -LRB- e.g. some term and some permanent -RRB- -RRB- . I hope the information is helpful - please feel free to contact me for help and if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
If you are dependent upon your husbands income or share debt with your husband , he should have life insurance to cover your financial need . There must always be an insurable interest to purchase life insurance on another person . Life insurance always has to be written and underwritten with the insured persons knowledge and permission . I suggest asking friends and family if they know a good independent life insurance broker to professionally shop for your best coverage options . If your husband is not currently insured start today .
I actually just did this for a client . I had sold a gentleman a policy a number of years ago . He unfortunately got sick , and eventually passed . His wife called me up and wanted to know what to do . I called the carrier on her behalf and initiated the claim . The first thing the claims representative did was stop the automatic drafts of the premium from their checking account . That is a good move . Even amidst their grief , spouses in mourning still dont want to waste any money . They want the benefit . Towards that end , the claims rep then mailed the widow her claims kit . She , as the beneficiary , must file the claim . If for some reason she had been in capable of doing so , then a custodian or other appointed person would do it on her behalf . It took about a week , and she did get the kit . It was pretty simple . Obviously , a copy of the death certificate would have to be filed with the paperwork . Funeral homes are typically on top of this . They often encourage the grieving survivors to purchase a number of copies . They know that all sorts of institutions require it when settling that the estate of the deceased . I have found my involvement in expediting life insurance claims for clients to be some of the most powerful emotional experiences of my life . One in particular stands out . I had sold policies to a young couple . A number of years afterward , she became tragically distraught and overwhelmed . She committed suicide . These folks were my friends , and this made it double-hard to get involved . Her husband was so upset he couldnt even complete the claim form . I had to do so for him and just prepare it for his signature . Whew . I could tell you more stories like this . But such is the life of a life insurance salesman . Brokers do not have to be the ones to expedite the claims . Any friend or family member could do it . They can order the paperwork , and holds the beneficiarys hand during the process . But the beneficiary has to be the one to file the claim . Nobody likes to go through this . But , that is why you buy the policy . Want to keep learning ? Check out my blog : Planrisklive.com
This is an extremely sensitive topic . The death of a spouse can be life-shattering . A suicide can make it almost unbearable . Not too long ago a friend and client committed suicide . She had been going through a tough spell emotionally , and then almost out of the blue took her own life . Left behind a loving husband and three young boys . Very , very sad . I expedited the claim , as is my usual practice . This job is usually tough , and the fact that her family and mine are friendly made it really hard . My friend , her surviving husband , was so upset he could n't even complete the claim form . I did it for him . The insurance carrier paid the claim as the policy was over two years old . That is standard practice . Will they never pay before then ? I can say that I know of a case with a very high-profile insured who apparently committed suicide just a year after his policies were issued -LRB- he had several - lots of coverage -RRB- . The carriers , of course , initially refused to pay . The insured 's lawyers eventually convinced them to do so : why would they want the bad publicity of not paying a claim ? Will they always pay after two years ? My own feeling is yes , generally , but suspicious circumstances may interfere . If the carrier has reason to believe that this tragic event had been planned to take place right after the two-year anniversary . . Sometimes life is like a mystery novel .
I understand it 's hard when you have a driver with , shall we say , a less than stellar driving record . Most companies , however , will want your husband to be named on your auto insurance policy . Over the years they 've realized that people drive the cars that they own whether they 're insured on a policy or not . It 's just the reality of the situation . However , that does n't mean that your rates have to be sky-high , as you put it . There are some pointers I can give you to help minimize the impact . Your husband can get his own insurance separate from yours . If his record is bad enough that he has be placed with a non standard -LRB- high risk -RRB- company , you can still have a policy through a standard company . As long as he has insurance , he does n't have to be listed as a driver on your policy . Whether you choose to have him get his own policy or list him on yours , list him on a car that does n't have physical damage coverage -LRB- comp and collision -RRB- . Physical damage coverage on a non standard policy can cost big dollars , as much as 75 % of the total cost of the insurance . Track his driving record . Any violation will eventually drop off for rating purposes . Most minor violations will drop off after two years , at fault accidents will usually drop off after three years , and major violations -LRB- DUI etc. -RRB- will drop off after five years . As soon as he 's eligible to be insured through a standard carrier , list him . Many people do n't realize this and continue to pay non standard rates even after they 're eligible . I 'll preface this last point by saying I do n't recommend it . Some companies can exclude a driver . In so doing they 're not rated on the policy and they 're record does n't matter . But realize that there is no coverage if they get into an accident , even if they 're driving a car on the policy . Once again , I do not recommend this . From time to time I see a driver that has a problem driving safely . They routinely get tickets and have accidents . Some will even just stop carrying insurance because it 's so expensive but do n't seem to see the correlation between their driving and their insurance rates . If he will , get him into a safe driving program . If he wo n't , you 'll probably be dealing with this for a long time . Good luck .
Michelle in New Jersey , What a sad story ! I 'm sure everyone sympathizes with you as I do , however there are rules that govern pretty much everything as you indicated that you are aware . So the answer to your question : When is a life insurance policy considered `` In Force '' ? is that the policy is in force when all the delivery requirements are met and the first premium is paid . In this case the policy was in force , but then lapsed thus it was no longer in force . Your husband applied for reinstatement , which reinstatement was approved according to your account , however the premium had not yet been paid , nor the approval been given by the insurer when your husband died . Therefore the policy was not in force on your husband 's death and the insurer is not obligated to pay the benefit . Even if your husband had submitted the reinstatement premium with his application for reinstatement , since the company had not approved or accepted the reinstatement before your husband died the policy did not meet the requirements for inforceability . Had he submitted the premium and the company accepted and approved the reinstatement before he died then the policy would have been in force and the company would be obligated to pay the benefit .
New York and some other states are known as `` divorce revocation states . '' There is a provision in the N.Y. Estates Powers and Trusts code that automatically revokes an ex-spouse as beneficiary of a life insurance policy . Under certain circumstances this little known provision can wreak havoc on the lives of a surviving parent and children when an ex-spouse dies . The law states that your spouse is automatically revoked as beneficiary of any life insurance policy as soon as you are divorced , even if you do n't want them to be . There is a way this can be addressed , but it requires that the policyholder take action . Let 's assume your husband has a $ 500,000 life insurance policy and you are the beneficiary . You are getting divorced and you both agree that you will work together on any issues involving your children . Your marriage is bad , but you still work together as parents . Your husband says that he will leave you as beneficiary of his life insurance policy until the kids are self supporting . If he just `` leaves '' you as the beneficiary , you will no longer be the beneficiary as soon as you divorce . The state of New York has determined that by the act of the divorce itself you are no longer legally his beneficiary . If he dies without having taken any action , the contingent beneficiary will get the proceeds , not you . In order to fix this , your now ex-husband needs to complete a beneficiary change form and make you the beneficiary again , this time listing your relationship as `` ex-spouse . '' It 's a small technicality but not addressing it could be financially catastrophic . By naming you as his beneficiary and ex-spouse after the divorce , you are now legally the beneficiary again . I saw one case where the wife `` took over '' her ex-husbands life insurance policy to make sure the policy stayed in effect and she remained the beneficiary . She had been paying the premium for many years when her ex-husband passed away . When she filed the death claim she was told that because the beneficiary designation predated the divorce she had been revoked as beneficiary . The benefit was paid to someone else . If you are divorced and you or your ex-spouse 's life insurance predates the divorce , it 's critical that you find out if yours is a divorce revocation state . If it is , update your beneficiaries . I apologize for the very long post , but there are many women -LRB- and men too ! -RRB- that need to be aware of this .
When buying life insurance for your husband , first gather his health information : the medications he takes , his height and weight , any weight loss of over 10 pounds in the past year , and a history of health conditions he has had -LRB- including the year he was diagnosed -RRB- . If he has had a bankruptcy , felony , DUI , or other risk factors , try to recall the date it occurred and/or was discharged . Ask your husband whether he objects to taking an exam . Then , using all this information , shop for his best rate . He will need to complete and sign the application as the insured . Either of you can own the policy . The policy owner and person making the payments will also sign the application . If the policy does not need an exam , your husband may need to do a phone interview with a representative for the life insurance company . If it is a medically underwritten policy , it will require an exam to be done in your home or place of your husband 's choice . Once approved , your husband will need to sign some delivery requirements to put the policy into effect . If you are the policy owner , you will need to sign them , as well .
This is an outstanding question ! It goes to the heart of how best to protect your family , and sort through all of the choices out there . It can be scary trying to figure out who has the ` best deal ' and since most people do n't understand a lot about insurance , how not to get taken . I think it is fair to say also that people do n't have a high opinion of insurance to begin with , so agents are n't seemingly much better . So why not just choose a policy from an on-line company or name brand company ? Here 's what I 'd say to you . I have always done business as much by my feel for the person as by their product . If my server does n't care about me or my meal , I do n't go back to the restaurant , or I only order carryout from them . If a bagger at the grocery store just throws my groceries haphazardly into the bags , I 'll look for a different line every time . I want to know that the person I 'm dealing with cares about me , and my business . I also want to know that I have some flexibility - if they 're the only bagger or server , I wo n't go back to those places . An independent agent can offer more options than a name brand office agent would . The name brand can only offer that companies policies , and prices . If their policy is the best one , and I feel the agent truly cares about me and my needs , I 'll buy from them . Chances are though , I 've met with at least one other independent agent -LRB- one not tied to a single brand name - I myself work with several -RRB- to shop prices and coverage before deciding . Again , how they presented themselves to me as they worked for my business was as much a consideration for me as the policy details . If I did n't feel like they cared about anything but the sale , I 'd leave , and thank them for their time . When the time comes that I need help -LRB- and it inevitably does -RRB- I want someone who cares and jumps to help , not someone who has to hunt to figure out who I am . i guess for me , I want a relationship with my business people , -LRB- and my clients -RRB- not just a transaction . I hope that helps you , and I thank you for asking !
The amount of life insurance a husband should have depends on the income of the husband , whether there are children , the age of the husband and his family , and whether he is the only breadwinner . If his goal is to put the children through college , pay off a mortgage , and provide enough income that his wife can stay home with the children , it will take a much higher face amount than the husband in his 50 's with a wife working in a high income occupation and no children at home . You might want to look at some life insurance calculators to help you determine your specific recommended amount , or call an agent to discuss this . It does not take long to figure out what face amount is best for each family , and is a decision that will impact your family for the rest of your life .
If you are dependent upon your husbands income or share debt with your husband , he should have life insurance to cover your financial need . There must always be an insurable interest to purchase life insurance on another person . Life insurance always has to be written and underwritten with the insured persons knowledge and permission . I suggest asking friends and family if they know a good independent life insurance broker to professionally shop for your best coverage options . If your husband is not currently insured start today .
Why buy whole life insurance ? Well I bought whole life for several reasons , maybe they apply to someone else , maybe not . Life insurance is a personal choice . I can only really tell you why I bought it over term . First , I planned on living as long as possible , term does not work if I do that . Then I like that the death benefit increased over time to help battle inflation . I liked that the cash values were mine to do with what ever I like with . I do n't have to ask permission to take money out or put money back , it is mine to decide . I like that the price is locked in . I like that the insurance company can not come back later and increase my costs . I have control . I like that when my health changed and I became uninsurable that I had policies I controlled that they could n't price me out of or change the terms of . They were mine , purchased when my health was excellent . Twenty years later , when my health went south , the policies did n't . I like that my cash values did n't count against my kids FASFA contribution count . I really like that in 2008 when my real estate , market investments all took a big dump on my portfolio , my whole life did n't go backwards in value . In fact that year it was my most profitable portfolio item . I like going to sleep at night knowing my policies will be there for my family if I do not awake , but I really like that these policies will not let me down or be subject to the extreme market ups and downs that the rest of my portfolio is . This is just a few things I can mention . There are many many more but hey it comes down to what you actually want to happen , not what somebody else tells you what you should want . If it does n't fit what you want , do n't buy it .
If you want life insurance on your husband arrange an interview with a trusted insurance agent . If you dont already have such an agent , get recommendations from friends , colleagues and neighbors . Prepare your husband by sharing your concerns with him . Make sure that the agent you meet listens , offers sound advice and communicates well with you and the company . If your husband objects to the purchase of life insurance he made need counselling . It is not normally to tell someone that you love that you want to see them suffer , which is what you will do if he predeceases you .
In order to acquire for insurance coverage on someone else , first you need to have insurable interest . You would have insurable interest in your husband . Next you need to have their permission , so you husband would need to sign the application as the life insured . You could be the beneficiary and own the policy . You would have total control once he gives permission to be the life insured . An independent life insurance broker , representing several companies , could help you find the right policy at the right price . If you have further questions , or feel that I could be of assistance , please do not hesitate to contact me.If you would like to work with a local life insurance broker , you could start with a Google search . For example , if you search for : life insurance broker Halifax or life insurance agent Halifax , my name , along with several others , will come up . You can use the same method to find a life insurance broker in your community .
It all depends on what he wants the insurance for . Husbands tend to have a lot that their income is dependent on -LRB- household , family , college dreams for children , etc -RRB- and as such the loss of his income can have devastating effects on a family . The amount of insurance he should have will depend on how much he currently earns and how much he has the potential to contribute to the continuation of the dreams for his family . I would suggest that both Husband and wife sit down with an Insurance Professional and come to a dollar amount of coverage they feel they would need to adequately fulfill their family wishes .
If you are referring to a room mate situation , then it would be wise for each person to have renter 's insurance . If a husband & wife , then it is not needed on each person . Insurance is based on an insurable interest . For example if I had a room mate , my room mate has no insurable interest in my stuff or my liability . There is one other option , the renter 's policy could be endorsed to insure the room mate as an additional insured . The room mate 's contents would not be covered , but at least the room mate would have liability coverage . -LRB- see some of my other answers regarding renter 's insurance -RRB- .
You can take out a life insurance on your ex-husband as long as your ex-husband agrees to having you take out a life insurance policy on him . He will need to sign the application as the Insured person , even if you are the Owner and Payer of the policy . Also , there must be a financial reason for you to have life insurance on your ex-husband . E.g. . He pays child support or alimony that would be lost if he passed .
Yes , a wife can take out life insurance coverage for her husband as there is an insurable interest . However , the wife can not take out life insurance coverage without the husbands knowledge and consent . The husband must sign the application and submit his personal and medical information to the insurance company 's underwriting department .
The answer to your question has many parts to the final answer . Let 's assume I just got married and my phone has been ringing incessantly with insurance agents pedaling their life insurance policies . My wife and I know it just makes good sense to have life insurance-my policy covering her and vice versa . The question is given my occupation and I do not want her to work how do I plan `` how much '' life insurance ? My employer can provide $ 50,000 for me and I am not taxed as long as I stay at or below $ 50,000 . So from a cost standpoint that $ 50,000 is a given . I hope to have two children to keep my wife happy and raising kids . We know it takes a huge amount to just raise the kids much less educate them . We also know if I am smart at some point in my life I will be smart to have saved enough money to get out of the life insurance market and have savings to pay any funeral costs that may arise . So on today 's date I know my `` insurance needs '' is at the highest point it will ever be assuming the two children are born and then we can avoid the `` steamy ` Saturday and be careless and now the third is here . So if I assume the first child will be born in two years that means in year 20 I have to have `` college expense '' funds '' . Is it a better investment to use life insurance or it better to open a mutual fund aggressive growth and invest a $ 100 pewr month for the next 20 years ? Let 's assume the second child in born in our fourth year of marriage . Now the same decision outlined above is with me again . What is often overlooked is the assumption is I will remain healthy and my income will increase each year . What happens if I become ill and diabled for two years ? What disablity insurance plans do I have ? Do they cover my `` own occupation '' or if I can flip hamburgers I am not considered disabled . In order to make an informed decisions you have to consider all the options . Is it best for me to take a Gerber Life insurance policy on each child for $ 20,000 , which then doubles , at their age 18 ? If I am confident that I can save sufficiently for the next 30 years I may decide to take a $ 1,000,000 30 year term policy but if I am not confident of my ability to save then I am sure going to use the `` dollar cost averging '' advantages of having a `` cash value '' policy and a mutual fund in the aggressive growth and invest $ 100 per month . I ho ; pe this helps you to see the complexity of your question .
end question
start question
life-insurance
Mother had a policy on her nephew and recently passed . Now insurance company says that her nephew is now the owner of the policy . Can this happen ?
It does depend upon the specific circumstances when the life policy was purchased 38 years ago . It is not unusual for this to happen on most policies on minor children . Your mother was the owner and her nephew the insured . If the owner dies before the insure , the life insurance company has no choice but to make the insured the owner . Your mother can not name anyone else as owner , so I 'm not sure without full cooperation of the nephew , this will remain the same . Life insurance proceeds are outside of the will .
This could happen if your mother 's nephew was named as a contingent owner on this policy . She may have set it up that way just for a time like this , when she was no longer alive to pay the premiums . That way , he could then own his own policy and pay his own premiums . He would also then choose his own beneficiary .
It does depend upon the specific circumstances when the life policy was purchased 38 years ago . It is not unusual for this to happen on most policies on minor children . Your mother was the owner and her nephew the insured . If the owner dies before the insure , the life insurance company has no choice but to make the insured the owner . Your mother can not name anyone else as owner , so I 'm not sure without full cooperation of the nephew , this will remain the same . Life insurance proceeds are outside of the will .
This is a very common question . The answer is yes . Let me give you an example of what one of my clients did . It was very thoughtful . My client is a woman in her 30s . She is very devoted to her mother , who is in her 60s . Her mother took great care of her when she was growing up , and now she wanted to pay your mother back . She makes sure her mother lacks for nothing . She bought her a house , and pays her monthly bills . She bought her a car . She treats her to vacations . Her whole attitude is that my mother took great care of me , and now that I have the money , Im going to take great care of her . Of course , all the money she is spending now on her mother , is money she can not spend on herself and her own future . She is basically depleting her retirement fund for her mothers care . She came to me and basically said that she would like to get reimbursed at some point for the money she is spending on her mother . She will happily provide for her mother as long as a mother is alive ; however , when she dies , she would like to have an insurance benefit paid to her to replenish her own retirement fund . The goal was to get a life insurance company to offer a policy on her mother for that reason . And I did it . It took some digging , but I did find a life insurance company to buy into that concept . They did set a limit on the face amount , but it was reasonable as far as what my client wanted to accomplish . Certainly a win-win situation .
Yes , Suze Orman recommends long-term care insurance . In fact , she is the primary caregiver for her mother who lives with her in Florida . In an article written forSun Times Media , LLC , dated Sept. 4 , 2012 , she relates how difficult it has been taking care of her mother . Although Suze Orman had - and still has - the means from her business to take care of the costs of long-term care insurance , she reports that she tried and tried to get her mother to sign off on an LTCi application , but she refused to do it . Her mother said she would n't ever need it and that it would be a waste ofmoney . It costs approximately $ 25,000 / month for Suze to keep her mother at home and have the best quality care around the clock . That 's about average for 24/7 home care with skilled nursing . If Suze 's mom were to go into a Nursing Facility , the cost would be much less , but would still be from $ 7,000 - $ 12,000 per month , depending on whether she had a semi-private or private room . Suze indicated that as a young professional financial advisor , she saw `` clients who would spend all the money that they had earned over a lifetime on a long-term care stay . '' She advised that , `` If you can afford LTC insurance and you are in your early 50s or older , now is the time to look into getting it . '' But , she also cautions that if you ca n't , '' ... dont buy it because you will end up dropping it and wasting your money . '' She concludes her article with the irony of her own personal situation with regard to buying long-term care insurance . `` Over the years , I have had some health problems that are fine today . But , when I went to get my own LTC insurance policy two years ago I was denied for recent health reasons . If I had just gone one year earlier , that would not have been the case . '' -LRB- Suze Orman donated her fee for writing the article to Blue Planet Network , which aims to bring sustainable safe drinking water to people in rural communities around the world ; blueplanetnetwork.org . -RRB-
This could happen if your mother 's nephew was named as a contingent owner on this policy . She may have set it up that way just for a time like this , when she was no longer alive to pay the premiums . That way , he could then own his own policy and pay his own premiums . He would also then choose his own beneficiary .
Life insurance underwriting gives a lot of latitude to the definition of dependent . Its actually pretty interesting . I think this is because the whole principle of insurable interest implies a certain dependency . It is this principle that is the bottom line as to whether or not the company accepts the beneficiary designation on a submitted application . So who really can be dependent on the insured financially , and thereby qualify as a beneficiary on his or her policy ? Certainly a spouse . Does the spouse have to be working ? No . Can the spouse be rich and independently wealthy ? Yes . They still can be considered financially interdependent . Kids ? For sure . Minors ? Of course . How about children that are of legal age ? Well , they certainly could still be financially dependent on their parents . To some extent . -LRB- Until their parents boot them out of the nest :-RRB- Parents ? Yes . That is very common these days . Elder parents become dependent on their grown children financially . Sad to see , but it happens all the time . Other family members ? Could be . How many times do you see a family taking in a niece , nephew , cousin , aunt , or uncle ? Then you have the whole realm of domestic partners . Same sex . Opposite sex . Older man , younger woman . Older woman , younger man . As long as they have some kind of financial independence shared accounts , etc. they could be named as beneficiaries . And we havent even talked about how businesses can be dependent on people , as well as charities . Interesting , dont you think ?
You can usually get life insurance on a relative , but even with relatives , some insurable interest must exist . E.g. Nephew Mark can not take out a policy on Great-Aunt Mary unless Mary has been living with Mark , if Mark has been contributing to her , if Mary loaned Mark some money , or some other reason that monetary award is justified . If a close relative and a smaller amount of coverage , just the family tie can make the life insurance allowable .
No , a nephew does not generally fall within the criteria of being an immediate family member -LRB- like a spouse and/or natural born children -RRB- from the legal perspective of state insurance departments and insurance carriers . The notable exception to this would be in the case where you have assumed legal guardianship for your nephew and have a court order making you the responsible adult for caring for your nephew .
To pay off debts that are left after they pass away . To leave a legacy . This could be to provide money for college for niece 's , nephew 's , grandkid 's , or other siblings . To provide for their favorite charity after they pass away . They may not remain single before they pass away . Remember the younger you are when you purchase life insurance coverage the lower the cost .
A Roth IRA can be started at almost any age . My nephew is in his mid-20s and he has a Roth IRA . The point of this type of planning is to save money now . Retirement will come soon enough . A Roth IRA will provide you with a tax free stream of income . Even the gain earned by the Roth comes to you at retirement free of income tax .
As I am sure you have found out , insurable interest is the key principle here . But insurable interest ranges far and wide . Let me share with you some of the more interesting cases I have come across . For sure , spouses can take out a policy on one another . They are codependent . I have also seen married men and women take out policies on their lovers . They called that person a domestic partner . This was in addition to having a policy on their marital partner ! Policies on kids are common . Its tough to think about kids dying , but generations ago it was commonplace to buy a burial policy on a new child . But there is another reason to do so : get a policy on a child so that he or she grows into adulthood already covered . What if unfortunately he has a tough time getting coverage later on , due to a medical condition or other higher risk factor ? Maybe he becomes a mountain climber , or a scuba diver , or has a job which requires travel to Third World countries . He will be really glad you had the foresight to get him a life policy when you did . I have seen children take out policies on parents . One client dedicated herself to making sure her retired mother lived in style . She bought her a house , paid her monthly expenses , treated her to a new car , and really paid her back for all that generosity Mom had shown her growing up . Of course , the daughter sacrificed her own retirement money to do so . So I was able to get her life policy on mom to reimburse her . Then you have policies taken out by businesses on partners and key people . Plus you have charities insuring donors to make sure those contributions keep on coming .
Suze Orman recommends long-term care insurance , if it fits and one can medically qualify for it . She is currently taking care of her 90-year old mother who refused to letSuze buy long-term care insurance on her when she could have qualified for it . Of course , Suze has the means to keep her mother at home to the tune of about $ 25,000 / month . That 's what 24/7 skilled nursing care costs at this point in time . A facility would cost less , but mom naturally wants to stay home as long as possible . Suze is fortunate to have the means to have that happen . Ironically , Suze waited too long to apply for her own long-term care insurance . In waiting , she developed some type of medical condition that precluded her from qualifying for coverage when she did apply . In virtually all of her commentary on planning for retirement , Suze mentions the need to at least explore the financial prudence of applying for some amount of long-term care insurance . Long-term care insurance is not for everyone . But , everyone should have a plan for being taken care of during late life and insurance might be part of that plan .
Who can be named a beneficiary of a life insurance policy ? Just about anyone and anything . You can name your spouse , children , parents , neices , nephews , business partners . You can also name universities , animal shelters , non profits , for profits , banks and other business entities . Being a beneficiary is still something you can decline to accept if you desire . Insurance proceeds would go to the next beneficiary or into the estate or as some people are doing a trust .
No . You generally can only put either your spouse or your child on your health insurance plan . If you are the legal guardian of your nephew -LRB- with proper documentation -RRB- , you may be able to add them to your plan . I hope the information is helpful - please feel free to contact me for help and if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
Gap insurance is a coverage that is offered either on your auto policy or through the auto finance company as an option -LRB- or requirement -RRB- on your loan . Basically , what it does is provide you a clean slate if you total a car with a loan on it . Lets look at an example : Erica buys a 2009 Volkswagon Jetta from a used car shop for $ 14,000 . The used car value could be 12,500 depending on what form you use -LRB- blackbook value , NADA , Kelly Bluebook value , etc. -RRB- The form doesnt matter here other than answering the question of is this car worth less than the loan I have on it ? Erica is required to have other-than-collision coverage -LRB- often called comprehensive coverage , which is a misnomer -RRB- and collision coverage as a stipulation for the loan she is getting with the bank or finance company . That coverage states that it will repair her car for specific reasons in the policy OR pay her the actual cash value of the car if it costs less than the repairs it would take to make the car drivable . Often a state variation will come here saying a car can not be repaired if the expenses are 70 % or more of the value of the car - the insurance company needs to pay the policyholder the actual cash value of the car instead . If you look closely at your auto policy , you also have a coverage to protect yourself from liability caused by you damaging the property of others . This is often referred to as property damage liability or the third number in your limits -LRB- such as 100/300/100 limits -RRB- . It states that it will repair the damage caused by your actions that you are held responsible for OR pay the actual cash value of that item if less than the cost of repairs . This is important , so remember it . So what does this mean for Erica , knowing this information ? Lets say Erica has had her Volkswagon Jetta for 3 years and diligently made payments on her car without missing a payment date . The loan is now $ 9,000 after interest . The value of the car has depreciated down to $ 7600 because of the age , mileage , and usage of the car . Technically , Erica is paying $ 1400 more on the car than what it is worth -LRB- taking interest out of the equation to make it easier . -RRB- Lets say at this 3 year mark , Erica gets into an accident and the car is beyond repair . It doesnt matter if she causes the accident or if someone else was at fault , because both property damage -LRB- what the other party uses to fix Ericas car if they caused the accident -RRB- and collision coverage -LRB- the coverage used to fix Ericas car if she caused the accident -RRB- use actual cash value to determine how much repairs will be made and how much money they will pay Erica . Both coverages will give Erica $ 7600 for her car . However , since Erica has a lien on the car because she is financing it , that money actually goes to the FINANCE COMPANY and Erica wont see a penny of it . The finance company will apply that $ 7600 to her loan , meaning there is a $ 1400 balance left she is responsible for . The bank isnt a charity so they will still tell Erica she has to pay it because it is still in her contract and the bank lost $ 1400 on a car that no longer exists . Erica still has to pay $ 1400 on a car she doesnt even have , and still has to buy a new car . Thats a bad place to be in life , wouldnt you say ? Even worse , Erica might still have to make payments even if the accident wasnt her fault ! She gets all of the blame of the finance company but caused none of the problems ! If Erica had gap insurance , it would kick in at this point and relive Erica of the extra $ 1400 she would be responsible for . If Erica was ahead of her loan and the cash value of the car was more than the loan , she would get any money paid above the loan amount -LRB- thus satisfying her finance company as well -RRB- and the gap insurance would not take effect . Either way , Erica isnt paying money any more on her car that is non-functional . Here are some common stipulations found in gap insurance - check with your loan company to see if they apply to you : Gap insurance is there to pay for the loan on the car and THATS IT ! If you increase the loan to pay for any extras you are typically not going to get that part of the loan covered and will still have to pay . This includes things like the extended warranty , credit life insurance in case you die before the loan is paid off , and things like that . It might even say the gap insurance isnt paid for either and you will have to pay for that . Its definitely worth looking into . Gap insurance also says that it wont take effect if you are behind on your payments on a certain amount , pay more because the car is worth less from overuse or modifications , and wont cover intentional damage to the car . Basically , its not there to handle your loan if you are financially strapped and can not handle the payments anymore and want to get rid of the car . Another option in place of gap insurance is to get the repair/replacement coverage for your auto policy . This says that instead of getting the cash value of a car beyond repair , you get a replacement car instead -LRB- even if it costs more than the value of the car . -RRB- You would still have the loan but youd have a car as well . This coverage might not be available and it often is only available for cars less than 1-5 years old and only if you are the original owner . Talk to your agent to see if you qualify . Gap coverage is an excellent coverage to get , and is worth the investment . Used cars typically drop in value faster than the loan does from payments , and you dont want to be stuck paying on a car you dont even have anymore .
Certainly President Obama has never publicly made any statement that would indicate a plan to take away Medicare and to do so would be an act of political suicide . Whatever position you may take on our president 's actions , results or intentions , he has demonstrated some pretty keen political survival skills . The more appropriate question would be `` Are the President 's health care policies going to have a negative or positive effect on Medicare ? '' An examination of the Affordable Care Act and its funding mechanisms shed more light on this subject . To help pay for the expansion of health care for those under age 65 and to provide the premium subsidies for persons earning less than 400 % of the Federal Poverty Level you will find that approximately $ 700 billion dollars in what would have been increased spending on Medicare are being diverted to ObamaCare over the next decade . We will still be spending more on Medicare 10 years from now than today but at reduced levels and at precisely the time when more Americans than ever will be moving into Medicare as the Baby Boom generation fully enters its Medicare years . The net consequence of this would seem to be negative to the Medicare population . Projected reimbursement levels to health care providers for serving Medicare patients -LRB- already thought to be below or at the cost of providing these services by many health care providers -RRB- are expected to steadily decline in the coming years and I have seen reports indicating that they will fall below reimbursement levels for Medicaid patients . The number of physicians accepting new Medicare patients is already a national problem and if reimbursement level decline as predicted this will only make the access problem worse for senior citizens . And , yes , a national review board is supposed to provide `` guidance '' on appropriate treatments for seniors though the composition of this body and any recommendations they will be making are unclear at this time . This is the so called `` Death Panel '' some have referred to . This term may be overstated but as described in the health care reform law it will have great latitude in its decision making and little outside oversight . So , I will conclude by saying that the reasonably expected impact of the health care reform law on the Medicare population does not bode well and will make it even harder for the program to live up to the expectations of the persons who will be covered by it . Remember , while campaigning , then Senator Obama , when asked by a person if his program would pay for a pacemaker to be implanted in her 100 + year old mother who was still active , had a will to live and wanted to enjoy a good quality of life , said in response that `` will to live '' was a subjective measure that would be impossible to administer and that perhaps the best response would be for her mother to just take a pain pill . Though to be fair , he did n't say whether she should just take a pain pill as needed or to take a handful and wash them down with some Jack Daniels .
My parents applied for Long Term Care Insurance many years ago , and my mother was able to qualify for it , but my father was not . My father 's declined over these many years , and toward the end , it was a worry whether my mom could continue to care for him or not . Thankfully , she was , but it was a difficult situation , to say the least . Now my mom has long term care insurance and you can tell it brings her peace . Even though she does not have anyone at home to care for her , like she did for Dad , she will have the funds to do what she needs to do if she can not care for herself . This personal experience has made it more real to me that , if you are not close to qualifying for Medicaid , you should probably have Long Term Care Insurance .
This is a really timely question as I happen to be working on a case right now . The situation is this : a young girl 12 years old has several medical conditions . Her family has been through a tough time and fortunately , she is stable and relatively healthy . But of course , these things may get worse in time . Her parents are very forward thinking and know the essential role life insurance plays in ones financial portfolio . They are rightfully concerned that their daughters medical condition may prohibit her from getting coverage later , or may cost her a lot of money in extra premium . They therefore want to take a policy out on her now so she can have coverage as she enters adulthood . A smart move , dont you think ?
It depends on a few factors as to whether you may purchase life insurance on your Mom . They are known as `` insurable interest factors '' . Do you depend on your mothers income ? Would you be responsible for any of her debt when she dies ? Are you responsible for her final expenses at her death ? If any of these questions are answered `` yes '' then you have insurable interest if `` no '' then you may not be able to purchase life insurance on her . There are a lot of reasons that allow this transaction to occur except for just trying to profit a bit from her death .
end question
start question
health-insurance
Can I Save Money On My Health Insurance Premiums In The Marketplace ?
That is an excellent question ! You may very well , and it certainly does n't hurt to look . There are a lot of things that will determine the cost of your plan , but the www.healthcare.gov -LRB- Affordable Care Act/Obamacare -RRB- site allows you to shop without obligation to compare plans and options , and it tells you if there are discounts available to you . As a nation , we have already saved on our insurance costs , as the annual price increases normally associated with health care policies have slowed from annual 10 % + increases to under 5 % the last couple of years , in most markets . The increase on average here in Houston this year was about 4 % . Happy shopping , and thanks for asking !
This is the question millions of Americans will be asking themselves over the next few months and it is a crucial one . There are many factors involved in your decision to purchase individual major medical insurance . Some crucial ones are ; 1 -RRB- Will my or my family 's expected income for 2015 fall in the range that would qualify me/us for a premium subsidy and possible cost sharing reductions for coverage purchased through the government health insurance marketplace -LRB- 100 % to 400 % of the Federal Poverty Level -RRB- ? 2 -RRB- If I do qualify for a subsidy is it enough to influence my buying decision ? Premium subsidies peak in the 250 % to 300 % of the Federal Poverty Level zone and decline rapidly from there . For example , an individual making $ 40,000 / yr would technically qualify for a subsidy but the dollar amount would be small enough that you may decide its not worth the trouble -LRB- this may be especially true in states with limited carrier choices in the government marketplace -RRB- . 3 -RRB- Are the doctors , hospitals and pharmacies I want to use in-network providers with the health plan I am considering enrolling in ? 4 -RRB- What is the coverage for prescription drugs in the plan I am considering ? Are the prescription drugs I am already taking covered by the formulary of the health plan I am considering ? And , if they are , at what level are they covered and might I be forced to revisit the steps that led me to finding the prescription medication that works for me and my health condition before my new health plan would cover them ? 4 -RRB- What coverage does the health plan I am considering offer outside of my home area ? Can I plug into a national network of providers wherever I might be or is my coverage largely restricted to my home service area ? 5 -RRB- If I am diagnosed with a serious illness like cancer will the health plan I am consider cover services from providers like M.D. Anderson , the Mayo Clinic and other nationally recognized centers of excellence ? The consumer can no longer just assume that this will be the case . While these questions do n't cover all the questions a person should ask , if you get the answer you like for the questions I 've posed you will have a much higher probability of being satisfied with the health insurance plan you select . For the vast majority of people , you will be better served to seek out the services of an experienced health insurance agent who is familiar with the insurance carriers available in your market and who can help guide you to the plan the best suits your needs whether it is inside or outside of the government health insurance marketplaces .
There a many questions a consumer should ask when considering their health insurance choices . Some questions will be unique to an individual 's current or anticipated healthcare needs and are difficult to address in this forum . However , in the era of ObamaCare , here are some general questions I think any health insurance buyer should be asking when looking at different health insurance carriers and different health insurance plans . 1 -RRB- Would I qualify for a meaningful subsidy of my health insurance premiums if I purchase health insurance through a Federal or State health insurance marketplace ? 2 -RRB- What is the deductible and out-of-pocket maximum financial exposure I would have under a given policy ? 3 -RRB- Does the policy have copayments for visits to doctors , prescription drugs , urgent care and emergency room visits or are all or some of these commonly used services subject to the policy 's deductible and co-insurance ? 4 -RRB- Are the doctors and hospitals I want to use in-network providers for the health insurance plan I am considering ? 5 -RRB- Are the prescription drugs I am taking covered under the formulary for the health insurance plan I am considering and , if so , what is the level of coverage and will I be subject to step therapy to gain access to a prescription drug I am already using successfully ? 6 -RRB- What coverage , if any , will I have if I choose to go outside of my health plan 's provider network ? 7 -RRB- Are there any geographic service area restrictions to where my coverage applies ? 8 -RRB- Am I required to get a referral froma primary care physician before I can access care from a specialist or receive impatient or outpatient diagnostic services and treatment ? 9 -RRB- How financially stable is the health insurance carrier I am considering ? This is especially important if you are considering enrollment in one of the new Co-Op health plans created under ObamaCare . Obtaining answers to these questions that are satisfactory to you will go a long ways towards assuring that you get the kind of coverage that best suits your needs . Seeking out the guidance of an experienced independent health insurance broker is generally these best way for people to get the answers to these and other questions they might have . Representatives of specific insurance companies can only explain their company 's products to you and , of course , they will think that their company 's plans are the best . The so called , navigators available to help people purchase coverage through the government marketplaces are rarely licensed insurance professionals , have little depth of knowledge in the industry and are generally reading from a script or are providing you generic answers that they have been provided with .
In an aggregate sense , Yes . The basic costs of health care -LRB- doctor & hospital services , prescription drugs , etc. -RRB- and our population 's consumption of health care services have been steadily increasing for decades . Health insurance costs are merely a reflection of these underlying factors . When one drills down to a specific company 's or a specific individual 's history with their health insurance premiums then you will find substantial variations in individual results . A knowledgeable and experienced health insurance broker/consultant can often manage their client 's benefits costs in ways that `` beat the market '' just like there always are some financial experts who outperform their peers in the stock market . The vast majority of my small business clients for instance have premium costs and benefit levels in 2014 that are not radical departures from their costs of a few to several years ago or , at the worst , they know that they have the best possible base cost level currently available to them in their marketplaces . This requires constant oversight of changing marketplace conditions , switching insurance carriers to take advantage of whichever carrier has the best value proposition at that particular time , and some fine tuning of benefit plan designs and funding approaches over a period of years to accomplish these results . But , it can be done because I have done it . The implementation of the new requirements of ObamaCare have upset the long established rules for the health insurance marketplace and are having a profound impact on health insurance plan designs and costs . ObamaCare addressed many access issues to health insurance coverage -LRB- guaranteed issue of policies , no pre-existing conditions , etc. -RRB- but really does nothing to reduce either healthcare costs or consumption . In fact , many can argue that ObamaCare is helping to increase both costs and consumption which will translate into higher health insurance costs . Certainly ObamaCare is the most profound change in our nation 's health insurance system in most people 's lifetimes and it will make the years ahead much more challenging for both individuals and businesses when it comes to managing their health insurance & health care costs . The guidance of an experienced health insurance expert who is staying on top of the rapid changes being prompted by ObamaCare is now more important than ever to both the individual and business health insurance consumer . If I can be of assistance in guiding you through these uncharted waters please feel free to contact me so I can put my 30 years of experience to work for you .
The answer to your question has many parts to the final answer . Let 's assume I just got married and my phone has been ringing incessantly with insurance agents pedaling their life insurance policies . My wife and I know it just makes good sense to have life insurance-my policy covering her and vice versa . The question is given my occupation and I do not want her to work how do I plan `` how much '' life insurance ? My employer can provide $ 50,000 for me and I am not taxed as long as I stay at or below $ 50,000 . So from a cost standpoint that $ 50,000 is a given . I hope to have two children to keep my wife happy and raising kids . We know it takes a huge amount to just raise the kids much less educate them . We also know if I am smart at some point in my life I will be smart to have saved enough money to get out of the life insurance market and have savings to pay any funeral costs that may arise . So on today 's date I know my `` insurance needs '' is at the highest point it will ever be assuming the two children are born and then we can avoid the `` steamy ` Saturday and be careless and now the third is here . So if I assume the first child will be born in two years that means in year 20 I have to have `` college expense '' funds '' . Is it a better investment to use life insurance or it better to open a mutual fund aggressive growth and invest a $ 100 pewr month for the next 20 years ? Let 's assume the second child in born in our fourth year of marriage . Now the same decision outlined above is with me again . What is often overlooked is the assumption is I will remain healthy and my income will increase each year . What happens if I become ill and diabled for two years ? What disablity insurance plans do I have ? Do they cover my `` own occupation '' or if I can flip hamburgers I am not considered disabled . In order to make an informed decisions you have to consider all the options . Is it best for me to take a Gerber Life insurance policy on each child for $ 20,000 , which then doubles , at their age 18 ? If I am confident that I can save sufficiently for the next 30 years I may decide to take a $ 1,000,000 30 year term policy but if I am not confident of my ability to save then I am sure going to use the `` dollar cost averging '' advantages of having a `` cash value '' policy and a mutual fund in the aggressive growth and invest $ 100 per month . I ho ; pe this helps you to see the complexity of your question .
When you look at retirement planning think of it as 4 phases . 1 . contributions 2 . accumulation 3 . distribution 4 . transfer . Contribution means how much money will i save each year in my savings vehicle . For example if i have a 401k and i decide i 'm going to contribute $ 5,000 a year that 's my contribution . Accumulation means my $ 5,000 will grow over time in my 401 k savings vehicle.for example $ 5,000 grows in 20 years @ 7 % would add up to $ 219,325 . Distribution is i have saved $ 219,325 in my 401k account , I 'm retired now and i need an income . You decide you want to take out 10 % of 219,325 . Your withdrawal would be $ 21,932 . Now you can have early withdrawals but you have to be aware of which savings vehicle you have because there might be penalties and fees for early withdrawal depending on your age.Some savings vehicles have no penalties . You might want to look at different savings vehicles tha t suite your needs . Transfer is passing your money and assets to your kids , charity , or church when you pass away . Or maybe you have everything put into a trust .
The health insurance marketplaces -LRB- exchanges as they were originally referred to -RRB- are a creation of the Affordable Care Act -LRB- ObamaCare -RRB- and the first exchange based plans were effective on January 1 , 2014 . The marketplaces are set up under either direct state supervision or are managed by the Federal government is the vast majority of states . Their purpose is to provide a web site based means for people to comparison shop between health insurance plan options , determine if they qualify for any premium subsidies and/or cost sharing reductions , and enroll in a health insurance plan . The stated objective of the health insurance marketplaces was to get more people covered under health insurance , enhance competition and to lower health insurance costs while improving overall coverage levels . While we have seen some reduction in the numbers of uninsured Americans we have also seen a shift in coverage from middle class to lower income Americans . It is debatable as to whether the competitive landscape has changed significantly and the general perception is that most people 's benefit levels have decreased while their net costs have increased . The main reason a consumer would want to make use of the government health insurance marketplace would be if they are in the income range -LRB- 100 % to 400 % of the Federal Poverty Level -RRB- where they would qualify for subsidies of their health insurance premiums . A person can only receive premium subsidies for approved health insurance plans purchased through the marketplace in your state . Even in this case , you should seek out the guidance of an experienced health insurance agent to explain the products you are considering purchasing .
YES , in the aggregate sense . Perhaps for some individuals or groups their particular situation will allow them to benefit from the changes in rating methods and benefits required by the Affordable Care Act . But for most individuals and groups I am entirely comfortable in predicting higher health insurance costs . First of all , the underlying cost of health care services continues to rise . As these costs rise the cost of insuring these services must rise accordingly , this has been the case throughout my 30 years in the health insurance industry . Secondly , we are beginning to get a picture of what the enrollment composition in the individual health insurance marketplaces is looking like . As predicted by many industry professionals , the enrollment is skewing towards an older and sicker population with the highly desired young and healthy population largely remaining on the sidelines . Just today one of nation 's largest pharmacy management companies reported their preliminary analysis of the prescription utilization of marketplace enrollees vs their pre-health care reform population . Usage of expensive prescription medications for serious chronic health problems is 47 % higher , and this is just based on a couple of months of utilization data ! While some hold out the hope that the people who waited until the last moment to enroll were disproportionately young and healthy , my own experience enrolling people gives little indication that this was the case . So , the table has been set for adverse selection -LRB- more sick than healthy enrollees -RRB- in the health insurance pool , especially for the insurance carriers who elected to participate in the government health insurance marketplaces . This can not help but translate into higher health insurance costs for 2015 and in many areas of the country this will translate into very significant double digit increases in individual and small group health insurance . This has already been broadly hinted at by all the major health insurance carriers , it 's really not a question of `` if '' but just `` how much '' .
Why buy whole life insurance ? Well I bought whole life for several reasons , maybe they apply to someone else , maybe not . Life insurance is a personal choice . I can only really tell you why I bought it over term . First , I planned on living as long as possible , term does not work if I do that . Then I like that the death benefit increased over time to help battle inflation . I liked that the cash values were mine to do with what ever I like with . I do n't have to ask permission to take money out or put money back , it is mine to decide . I like that the price is locked in . I like that the insurance company can not come back later and increase my costs . I have control . I like that when my health changed and I became uninsurable that I had policies I controlled that they could n't price me out of or change the terms of . They were mine , purchased when my health was excellent . Twenty years later , when my health went south , the policies did n't . I like that my cash values did n't count against my kids FASFA contribution count . I really like that in 2008 when my real estate , market investments all took a big dump on my portfolio , my whole life did n't go backwards in value . In fact that year it was my most profitable portfolio item . I like going to sleep at night knowing my policies will be there for my family if I do not awake , but I really like that these policies will not let me down or be subject to the extreme market ups and downs that the rest of my portfolio is . This is just a few things I can mention . There are many many more but hey it comes down to what you actually want to happen , not what somebody else tells you what you should want . If it does n't fit what you want , do n't buy it .
Any person eligible to purchase health insurance in the United States , with the exception of persons qualifying for Medicaid and/or Medicare is technically eligible to use the government health insurance marketplaces . Whether you would want to or whether it would make any sense for you to use them are other issues entirely . The government marketplaces will help determine if you would qualify for any premium tax subsidy for coverage purchased through their system . If you qualify for little or no premium subsidy then you may find that the government marketplaces may not best meet your needs . You will probably have larger selection of insurance carriers as well as possibly health plan and network options you may not find in the government marketplace . You should seek out the services of a health insurance broker to helpfind the best coverage for your situation . If you have coverage provider by an employer , and this coverage is deemed affordable under the terms of the Affordable Care Act , -LRB- cost does n't exceed 9.5 % of your W2 income -RRB- then neither you nor your eligible dependents will be eligible for premium tax subsidies in the government marketplaces . This does not preclude someone from purchasing individual health insurance inside or outside of the government marketplaces and in some cases buying unsubsidized individual coverage for a dependent may be less expensive than adding them as a dependent onto your group plan .
The gates open at midnight November 15th , 2014 and run through February 15th , 2015 . Nothing says holiday season to me like health insurance open enrollment , but at least now you can make some plans for your off time this Thanksgiving and Christmas . Absent a change of life status event -LRB- e.g. - marriage , divorce , child birth , etc. -RRB- between now and then , any person who has n't gotten health insurance by the March 31 , 2014 end of open enrollment is locked out of the individual health insurance marketplace . While it is too early -LRB- mid-May 2014 -RRB- to know exactly what health insurance plans will look like and cost for 2015 , the general assessment is that the vast majority of marketplaces will see rates go up -LRB- though perhaps not as high as some feared -RRB- , health plan product designs will be added and removed from the marketplace based upon what carriers learned in the first year of ObamaCare , some carriers will withdraw while other carriers are deciding to enter or expand their marketplace presences . In short , the health insurance world is getting more complicated not less . Seek out the services of an experienced health insurance broker representing all carriers early on in your search process . It should cost you nothing and save you a lot of headaches .
PPO is not a type of health insurance . It is an abbreviation for Preferred Provider Organization -LRB- PPO -RRB- which describes the network provider contracting approach associated with whatever health insurance plan you are purchasing . PPO network based health insurance products have dominated the marketplace for many years so it is not unusual for the consumer to blend the two . After January 1 , 2014 you will want to have your health insurance agent check for you , or if you are a `` do it yourselfer `` do someresearching online to determine the type of provider network associated with health plans you may be interested in . The traditional features of PPO plan designs have been to have office visit & prescription copayments , lower deductibles , higher co-insurance levels and lower out-of-pocket financial exposure for using in-network PPO providers while still having coverage for voluntary usage of non-network providers at reduced benefit levels . PPO plans are the dominant network arrangement in the current health insurance marketplace . However , changes brought about by the Affordable Care Act -LRB- ObamaCare -RRB- , are causing insurance carriers to re-design their products and this does extend to the design of their provider networks . This is especially true of the health insurance products sold in the government health insurance marketplaces where the consumer may encounter multiple network or sub-network type provider arrangements in this environment . For instance , here in Tennessee , the BC/BS plan offers essentially the same insurance products with pricing based on your choice of 3 different PPO networks at 3 different price points . The larger the PPO provider network you choose the higher the insurance premium associated with the product . In fact , the smallest of the 3 BC/BS network options is offered only in the government marketplace . So , these are words of caution , there are degrees of difference even within what are technically PPO based products these days . Do n't just assume that a provider is going to be in-network with an insurance carrier based upon your past experience . Verify with both the insurance carrier and the doctor 's office that they are a participating provider . Also , especially in the individual health insurance marketplace starting in 2014 , you will want to be aware of the growing move back to Point-of-Service -LRB- POS -RRB- , Health Maintenance Organization -LRB- HMO -RRB- and Accountable Care Organization -LRB- ACO -RRB- based provider delivery systems associated with a growing number of health insurance products . These other variations on the theme apply more stringent guidelines to provider access in a variety of ways -LRB- reduced network sizes , gate keeper referral arrangements , sharply reduced or no out-of-network coverage -RRB- and introduce entirely new considerations for the consumer .
1 -RRB- Make life easier on yourself - seek out an experienced local life & health insurance broker who is also certified to sell coverage through the government health insurance marketplace in your state . Health insurance is no longer only a health care and monthly budget issue in our lives , it is also a tax issue . Having professional guidance in making your selection is more important and more challenging than ever and it wo n't cost you any more to use a broker 's services , so look up some local brokers and put one to work for you . 2 -RRB- Healthcare.Gov -LRB- or your state 's health insurance marketplace if your state has its own -RRB- - you can strike out on your own by going to the web site for your state 's health insurance marketplace and shopping online . Buyer Beware - purchasing health insurance online is n't the same thing as buying a hotel room or an airline ticket . Try as they might , it is virtually impossible to present all the details a buyer should be aware of and consider and to anticipate all the unique questions each person will have in a web site . This is a problem because it is the insurance plans sold inside the health insurance marketplaces that are most likely to be built around narrow networks or restricted service areas . These can be the some of the unpleasant surprises the self-shopper can find themselves presented with if they do n't really do some serious homework . 3 -RRB- Other web sites - need I say more ? 4 -RRB- My web site at www.cdbsagency.com
A private health insurance exchange is a private sector counterpart to the Federal Government run or state run health insurance exchanges created as a centerpiece of ObamaCare . A private health insurance exchange or marketplace as is now the preferred term , is generally going to be an employer based program that offers multiple health insurance plan options to its employees . There are variations on the private health insurance marketplace theme . Some are built around the offering of individual health insurance plans from one or a number of different health insurance carriers . Others are built around one group insurance carrier that offers a variety of different plan designs at varying price points for employees to choose from . Still some others are large enough that more than one group health insurance carrier is electing to participate and offer a selection of health insurance plans , so in this last example you could have plans from Humana , United Healthcare and CIGNA all being offered alongside each other thus giving employees an even broader selection of plan designs and perhaps provider networks to choose from . In some cases there can be integration between a private exchanges and the government based exchanges . This is most commonly found in private exchanges built around offering individual health insurance plans . This can then allow for employees who would qualify for subsidies through the government health insurance exchanges to enroll in those plans while employees who do not qualify for subsidies can enroll in health insurance plans offered outside of the government exchanges . Another advantage that private exchanges can have over their government based counterparts is that they can offer a wide array of other employee or individual insurance options such as dental , vision , life , disability , critical illness , cancer and accident insurance . Some private exchanges can even extend the one stop shopping concept to auto , homeowners and other property & casualty based insurance products.The government health marketplaces are currently limited to health insurance and some dental insurance options . If you are interested in learning about whether a private health insurance exchange might be the right solution for your employee benefit needs please feel free to contact me .
Congratulations ! You have asked the question that millions of Americans are struggling with and will be struggling with for years to come . Without being self-serving to my industry , find yourself an experienced and well qualified health insurance agent to shop the market for you and to explain the fine details of the options available to you . The Affordable Care Act -LRB- ObamaCare -RRB- has accomplished what many thought impossible - making health insurance more expensive and even more complicated to understand than it already was . Buying health insurance online , whether it 's through the government marketplaces or private sites , is not like shopping around for the best deal on a hotel room or an airplane ticket . You will encounter a bizarre world of seemingly similar looking insurance products with wildly different prices or similarly priced products with wildly different benefit designs . I guide people through this maze and it really does n't matter if they have a 10th grade education or a PhD , they are amazed at the subtle differences I have to point out that make the real differences in the health insurance products they purchase . For example , one insurance carrier here in Tennessee offers identical insurance products in the government marketplace but has three different PPO network options attached to them . The average person would look at these products , determine that the benefits are the same and so why not pick the one with the lowest monthly premium ? What they have painfully learned later is that they have enrolled in a health plan with a very narrow network of doctors , hospitals and pharmacies . The hospital a few miles from their house that they assumed was in-network because it is part of the overall health system they have been familiar with in the past turns out not to be included in this narrow network product and instead they may have to go across town or to another county -LRB- in more rural areas -RRB- to go to an in-network hospital . Another major carrier uses terms like `` Local Preferred '' and `` National Preferred '' to differentiate their products . A quick scan of the benefit summaries reveals only slight differences in office visit & prescription copays , deductibles and out-of-pocket maximums but unless you really dig deep you wo n't be able to figure out one limits your pharmacy choices significantly while the other does not . Other insurance companies whose plans people have been familiar with and even enrolled in for years have found that these company 's products have transformed into products that now require primary care referrals for visits to specialists and other services or that they provide little or no coverage outside of their immediate geographic area . Just this week I spent about 3 hours explaining his different options to a man in his early 30 's who is smart enough to run his own business and who has been my customer for 6 years . The next morning he had his mother call me so I could explain the same things to her so she could help him feel good about his final decision . This is the reality of what the average consumer is now faced with in today 's health insurance marketplace . My advice , it 's a jungle out there . Do n't go in without a trained guide and beware of these so called `` navigators '' and `` assistants '' they are unlicensed , poorly trained -LRB- perhaps good intentioned -RRB- individuals who can do little more than read the same material on a computer that you can see .
Yes . Pre-existing health conditions such as Lupus can no longer be subject to a pre-existing condition exclusion , waiting period or be the cause for declining to cover a person . Now comes the part where I may part company with some of my peers . Unless you know a lot about health insurance and all the ins and outs of what the Affordable Care Act has caused insurance companies to do in redesigning their products , provider networks and prescription formularies , do n't go to Healthcare.gov for anything more than a cursory examination of what your options might be in the government marketplace and whether you will qualify for any subsidies . You can get a reasonable estimate of these factors without having to set up an account on Healthcare.gov through web sites such as HealthSherpa.com . Persons with chronic diseases , such as Lupus , especially need the services of an experienced health insurance broker who knows the intricacies of the health insurance products sold both inside and outside of the government health insurance marketplace . It is not enough to just see that a particular health insurance carrier is available in the government marketplace and your decision should not be guided solely by the monthly premium . The person with a chronic health condition generally has existing relationships with primary and specialty care providers and may have already gone through a lengthy process of finding the correct medication -LRB- s -RRB- and services for the treatment of their condition . They may even want or require access to medical facilities and providers outside of their immediate area . YOU CAN NOT TAKE FOR GRANTED THAT ALL INSURANCE CARRIERS AND THEIR PRODUCTS , ESPECIALLY THOSE SOLD WITHIN THE GOVERNMENT MARKETPLACE , WILL HAVE YOUR PHYSICIANS OR FACILITIES AS IN-NETWORK PROVIDERS OR THAT YOUR MEDICATIONS WILL BE COVERED UNDER THEIR FORMULARY . Also , access to major centers of excellence like M.D. Anderson , the Mayo Clinic , Memorial Sloan-Kettering and others certainly can not be assumed . This is a major issue especially among health plans sold in the government marketplaces where positioning your product based upon price point is key to marketing success . One of the ways that some carriers have achieved this price point positioning is through the use of so called `` skinny '' networks . Which , as their name implies , offer a reduced selection of providers and often a much more stringent and restrictive list of approved medications . Before you enroll in any health insurance plan you need to confirm with both the insurance carrier and the heath care provider -LRB- s -RRB- that all or at least as many as possible of the pieces of your care system are going to be available to you . You also need to confirm in what manner they will be available to you . Can you continue to go directly to the specialists you have been using or must you have a referral from your primary care physician before you can access that specialist now ? Will your current medication arrangement be honored or will you have to reinvent the wheel by going through a step therapy process of using other medications and having unsatisfactory results before your current medication is approved by the new carrier ? What if you have been going to a center of excellence facility out of town once a year for follow-up exams and treatment , will the new carrier allow this ? These are just some of the crucial questions any person suffering from a chronic disease needs to ask and get answered before they choose a health plan in the era of the Affordable Care Act .
A tough question to answer because it is so subjective , what 's high to one person may quite acceptable to another . As 30 year insurance industry professional I would say that by the standards of 2014 , you are entering `` high deductible '' territory when your plan 's annual deductible exceeds $ 2000 for an individual . When many consumers hear the term high deductible it is often being used as another way of saying this is a health insurance plan designed to work with a Health Savings Account -LRB- HSA -RRB- . The model for this product being that the lower premiums for a high deductible health insurance plan with no copayment features will free up money to fund an HSA and hopefullyaccumulate a health care nest egg for a person 's retirement years . In 2014 the minimum deductible for an HSA based plan is $ 1250 and the maximum deductible is $ 6350 . With the advent of the Affordable Care Act 's -LRB- ObamaCare -RRB- health insurance marketplaces in 2014 the consumer is now presented with a whole new array of health insurance plan designs that will certainly meet anyone 's definition of a high deductible plan but that may not be designed to be compatible with an HSA . Extra care and caution needs to be exercised by the consumer in the new world of health insurance and I would recommend seeking out the services of an experienced health insurance brokers in your marketplace to help you find the plan best suited to your needs and budget .
The simplest way to think ofhealth insurance exchanges is think of them like a Walmart , Target , Cosco , Kroger , etc. or even more similar - Amazon.com.Thehealth exchange is an online place to shop for health insurance , where insurance companies -LRB- like Blue Cross , Humana , UnitedOne , etc -RRB- can elect to have their health plans available for enrollmentSome states have their own exchanges in which they received federal dollars to operate , while other states opted for the federal government to handle the exchange through healthcare.gov . Just as anyone can walk into a Walmart or log on to Amazon.com , anyone can log on to an exchange and shop for health insurance . The plans on the exchange may be limited in the number of doctors & hospitals in the network in order to save premium dollars . For example , in TN , BCBS launched their `` E '' network , which has roughly 5000 providers state wide , where their other networks have ~ 45,000 & ~ 55,000 providers . The premiums for the `` E '' network are significantly lower . An insurance company may have addition plans available if you purchase directly through them . This is typically called off-marketplace , while enrolling through the exchange is on-marketplace . So ... if you had more choices off-marketplace , why would anyone want to enroll in a plan through the marketplace/health insurance exchange ? You can only obtain the government premium subsidy through the exchange . In other words , depending on your income , you could pay less through the marketplace . When you register , for example at healthcare.gov , there will be an opportunity for you to input your income from the previous year . If you are under 400 % -LRB- about $ 44k for individual -RRB- you could qualify for the subsidy , reducing the premium you would have to pay for your plan . After the insurance company receives your part of the payment , the insurance company tells the government you have paid & then the government pays the subsidy , so you get immediate relief . One final thought ... open enrollment ended 03/31 , so unless you have lost coverage involuntarily or had another qualifying event , you would be ineligible to enroll in individual health insurance until the next open enrollment .
Job loss is always a unsettling period in our lives and having to address your health insurance concerns only compounds things . The first thing you should look into is the feasibility of continuing your coverage through your former employer 's health plan under either your state 's continuation of coverage provisions or , if your employer has 20 + employees , under the Federal COBRA continuation guidelines . Unless you were terminated with cause your former employer should have provided you with information regarding your rights in this area . If you have a spouse who is employed and has health insurance coverage available through their employer this is a qualifying event for you to be added as a dependent on your spouse 's plan or for you and your spouse to both enroll in the spouse 's employer 's health plan if you had both been enrolled under your former employer 's health plan . If your spouse has access to coverage through their employer this will almost certainly make you ineligible for subsidies through the government health insurance marketplaces . Some people , especially those with family coverage , may find paying the entire premium for the former employer 's health plan to be cost prohibitive or may not want to continue be covered under it for other reasons . Losing coverage from an employer 's group health plan is a `` Qualifying Event '' that grants you a `` Special Election Period '' under the Affordable Care Act . You have a 60-day window after losing coverage to purchase individual health insurance either directly from an insurance carrier or through the state or Federal Health Insurance Marketplace in your state . The only good reason to purchase your coverage through a government health insurance marketplace is if your income level for 2015 would qualify you for a premium subsidy and possibly for cost sharing reductions . Currently a person 's qualification for these subsidies is based upon the applicant 's projected FAMILY income for all of 2015 . So , your situation is not an uncomplicated one . SEEK OUT AN EXPERIENCED HEALTH INSURANCE BROKER WHO REPRESENTS MULTIPLE INSURANCE CARRIERS AND WHO IS LICENSED TO SELL COVERAGE IN THE GOVERNMENT MARKETPLACE FOR GUIDANCE ON THESE MATTERS . If you are in good health and pre-existing condition coverage is not a concern for you , then in the event that the options I 've listed above do n't fit your financial needs , you can consider Short Term Major Medical insurance coverage as bridge coverage if you anticipate getting another job in the weeks or months ahead . These policies are usually less expensive -LRB- sometimes significantly so -RRB- than the options discussed above and can provide protection from financial ruin in the event an illness or injury occurs while the Short Term Medical policy is in effect . PLEASE NOTE : Short Term Medical policies do not meet the criteria under the Affordable Care Act for avoiding the individual mandate tax penalty so there could be tax ramifications if you are covered under such a policy for more than 90-days . This does not mean that a Short Term Medical policy is an option you should not consider but it is an option that you should choose only with a full understanding of the positives and negatives associated with this choice . Which is another reason you should seek the guidance of an experienced Health Insurance Broker .
Your question is a common one these days . It may be a subtle distinction but I 'm a firm believer in being clear on our terminology . Many employers and employees think that the Affordable Care Act -LRB- ObamaCare -RRB- legally requires employers to provide health insurance to their employees . This is not the case . In fact , ObamaCare may possibly have the result of reducing the number of employers who provide health insurance for their employees . Only time will tell on this issue . What the Affordable Care Act does is provide a mixture of incentives and penalties to employers regarding their choice as to whether to offer group health insurance to their employees . At the current time you need to subdivide the employer marketplace into three different segments and understand how the law applies to each one in the coming years . 1 -RRB- The small group market -LRB- 2 to 49 employees -RRB- - for companies of this size there is a possible incentive in the form of a tax credit to encourage employers to offer health insurance to their employees . THERE ARE NO TAX PENALTIES FOR EMPLOYERS IN THIS SIZE RANGE WHO DO NOT OFFER GROUP HEALTH INSURANCE TO THEIR EMPLOYEES . As with many aspects of the Affordable Care Act , even the availability and value of the tax credit is confusing and ends up being of little or no value to most small employers . First , the employer will have to purchase group health coverage through the SHOP program of the government health marketplace in their state in order to qualify for the tax credit of 50 % of what the employer contributes towards employee coverage . This may significantly reduce the employer 's options . For instance , here in Tennessee , only one group health insurance carrier has chosen to participate in the SHOP program in 2014 . So your choice is Blue Cross/Blue Shield in that case . The employer may find significantly less expensive group plan options from other insurance companies outside of the SHOP program . Next , the tax credit really only applies to groups of up to 24 employees and actually maxes out for groups with 10 or fewer employees , plus your average workforce wage has to be below $ 50,000 / year . And , the tax credit can only be claimed for two consecutive tax years . For these reasons the tax `` incentives '' provide little real incentive for most small employers to use the SHOP program and the SHOP program has done little to increase competition in most states . 2 -RRB- Groups with 50 to 99 employees - originally groups in this size range were to be subject to the Employer Mandate on January 1 , 2014 . However , the Obama administration delayed implementation of the employer mandate for groups of this size until January 1 , 2016 . So , while there are some issues employers in this size range need to be aware of and planning for , in most ways the status quo remains unchanged for employers in this size range . 3 -RRB- Employers with 100 or more Full Time/Full Time Equivalent employees - for employers who fall into this category the Employer Mandate provision was delayed only until January 1 , 2015 . After that date employers in this size range who offer no health insurance to their employees will be subject to a tax penalty of $ 2000 per employee if at least one of their employees purchases individual health insurance through the government health insurance marketplace and receives a premium tax subsidy . A second tax penalty situation is created for employers who offer health insurance to their employees which is deemed unaffordable under the terms of the Affordable Care Act -LRB- the cost to the employee must exceed 9.5 % of their W2 income -RRB- . In this circumstance the employer is subject to a tax penalty of $ 3000 for each employee who enrolls for individual coverage in the government health insurance marketplace and receives a premium tax subsidy . To make the tax penalties a bit more punitive , they will not be a deductible business expense . At first glance these potential tax penalties might appear to many to be a strong incentive for larger employers to provide health insurance to their employees . But , in practical terms , the tax penalties are often far less expensive than providing group health insurance especially in light of the additional coverage requirements of the Affordable Care Act that are driving health insurance rates up even further . So , no employer has to provide health insurance to their employees . And for larger employers it is simply a decision as to whether to bear the cost of providing group health insurance or paying a tax penalty .
end question
start question
life-insurance
How Does Life Insurance Cash Value Work ?
Some life insurance policies have a value that can be taken if the policy is surrendered or that can be taken as a loan . The cash value of the policy typicaly accumulates over the lifetime of the policy . If money is taken out of the policy as a loan it typically will lessen the death benefit of the policy and normally requires you to repay the loan within a set period of time or other consequenses can arise by not repaying the loan . There can be fees involved in this process . Be aware there are many different policies out there . To find out more about the cash value availablity within your policy , read your policy completely or contact your local agent to have them explain the details of your policy .
Whole Life and Universal Life are the two main types of permanent insurance coverage -LRB- there are sub-categories with in that - e.g. guaranteed universal life , current assumption universal life , indexed universal life , participating whole life , non-participating whole life , and others -RRB- . Permanent life insurance , in general , is designed to provide coverage for the rest of the insured 's life and build cash value . Universal life insurance features a flexible premium structure It 's , in short , a blend between term life insurance and whole life insurance . A universal life policy will guarantee the maximum death benefit for the lowest possible premium -LRB- making it much less expensive than a whole life policy with the same death benefit -RRB- . Like with whole life insurance , universal life will build cash value , although it will generally not accumulate as much cash value over the life of the policy as a comparable whole life policy it is essentially term insurance to age 121 , with the emphasis on a larger death benefit instead of greater cash value for the premium that you are paying . Universal life is ideal for anyone who wants to maximize the death benefit and is n't worried about building cash value . You can guarantee benefits up to age 121 -LRB- with most companies -RRB- - these policies can be structured to dial down the death benefit to a specific age as well -LRB- e.g. to age 90 , 95 , 100 , 105 , etc. -RRB- , which can reduce your premium by a good margin . Whole life insurance is a great vehicle for planning for the future . The premiums and death benefit remain fixed and guaranteed for life while the policy can build cash value at a great rate - this structure is known as a non-participating whole life policy . The other type is called participating whole life policy . Participating WL policies can pay out dividends which can be used in several ways : 1 -RRB- Decrease the premium - the premium would eventually hit $ 0 at some point and the policy would , in essence , be self-sustaining meaning the dividend is equal to or greater than the premium for the program -LRB- if greater , the difference can be used to increase the cash value or increase the death benefit -RRB- 2 -RRB- Purchasing paid-up additions - these additions increase the face amount of the policy 3 -RRB- Increase the cash value at a faster rate While whole life has many advantages , it is also the most expensive form of life insurance . Whole life features level premiums and death benefits and builds cash value at a faster rate than Universal life policies - the trade off between is that to increase the cash value faster , the premiums will be substantially higher -LRB- can often be 2-3x the premiums of guaranteed universal life policies on many occasions -RRB- . Please note , regardless of the permanent coverage type , the carrier takes back the cash value upon the death of the insured , and pays out the death benefit proceeds . Therefore , guaranteed Universal life policies allow you to maximize your death benefit and minimize your premium dollars that you pay for the coverage . I hope the information is helpful - please feel free to contact me for assistance with your life insurance coverage needs , including quotes and policy comparisons , and if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
Whole Life and Universal Life are the two main types of permanent insurance coverage -LRB- there are sub-categories with in that - e.g. guaranteed universal life , current assumption universal life , indexed universal life , participating whole life , non-participating whole life , and others -RRB- . Permanent life insurance , in general , is designed to provide coverage for the rest of the insured 's life and build cash value . Universal life insurance features a flexible premium structure It 's , in short , a blend between term life insurance and whole life insurance . A universal life policy will guarantee the maximum death benefit for the lowest possible premium -LRB- making it much less expensive than a whole life policy with the same death benefit -RRB- . Like with whole life insurance , universal life will build cash value , although it will generally not accumulate as much cash value over the life of the policy as a comparable whole life policy it is essentially term insurance to age 121 , with the emphasis on a larger death benefit instead of greater cash value for the premium that you are paying . Universal life is ideal for anyone who wants to maximize the death benefit and is n't worried about building cash value . You can guarantee benefits up to age 121 -LRB- with most companies -RRB- - these policies can be structured to dial down the death benefit to a specific age as well -LRB- e.g. to age 90 , 95 , 100 , 105 , etc. -RRB- , which can reduce your premium by a good margin . Whole life insurance is a great vehicle for planning for the future . The premiums and death benefit remain fixed and guaranteed for life while the policy can build cash value at a great rate - this structure is known as a non-participating whole life policy . The other type is called participating whole life policy . Participating WL policies can pay out dividends which can be used in several ways : 1 -RRB- Decrease the premium - the premium would eventually hit $ 0 at some point and the policy would , in essence , be self-sustaining meaning the dividend is equal to or greater than the premium for the program -LRB- if greater , the difference can be used to increase the cash value or increase the death benefit -RRB- 2 -RRB- Purchasing paid-up additions - these additions increase the face amount of the policy 3 -RRB- Increase the cash value at a faster rate While whole life has many advantages , it is also the most expensive form of life insurance . Whole life features level premiums and death benefits and builds cash value at a faster rate than Universal life policies - the trade off between is that to increase the cash value faster , the premiums will be substantially higher -LRB- can often be 2-3x the premiums of guaranteed universal life policies on many occasions -RRB- . Please note , regardless of the permanent coverage type , the carrier takes back the cash value upon the death of the insured , and pays out the death benefit proceeds . Therefore , guaranteed Universal life policies allow you to maximize your death benefit and minimize your premium dollars that you pay for the coverage . I hope the information is helpful - please feel free to contact me for assistance with your coverage and if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
Determining which permanent life insurance is `` the best '' comes down to your specific needs . There are several different types of permanent life insurance available including Universal Life , Indexed Universal Life and Whole Life . Of these three main types , Universal Life has the lowest premiums . Universal Life can last your entire lifetime and would typically be considered the most basic type of permanent life insurance . Indexed Universal Life and Whole Life are two other types of permanent life insurance and each one can have cash value build-up inside the policy . The cash build-up is calculated differently in each of these types . For an Indexed Universal Life policy , you pay a premium that more than covers the cost of insurance and the excess cash builds up inside the policy . That buildup of cash is credited interest based on an index or combination of indices and how they perform over time . Your cash value is never in the market but can grow if the market is up year-over-year . The IUL can be designed to build up a large cash value over the years and that cash value grows tax deferred . If you need cash along the way , you can get a loan against your policy and use it for your own needs . Many people use an IUL to build cash value for college expenses or to supplement their retirement income . Whole Life insurance policies generally offer fixed premiums . In a participating whole life policy , the cash value inside the policy increases as the insurance company provides dividends based on the overall return on its investments . Earnings beyond those needed to cover policy expenses go to the policy 's cash reserve from which you can use to cover future premiums or borrow against during life 's journey or to supplement retirement income .
Which life insurance has cash value ? Typically whole life and universal life polices have cash value , although some term policies also have a guaranteed cash value . The cash value is essentially a byproduct of keeping the premium level . You pay more up front , so the build up of cash and its growth reduces the company 's amount at risk . How the cash value is calculated , how much is guaranteed and how much -LRB- if any -RRB- is variable , depends on the design of the policy . This is spelled out in the policy wording . If you have further questions , or feel that I could be of assistance , please do not hesitate to contact me . If you would like to work with a local life insurance broker , you could start with a Google search . For example , if you search for : life insurance broker Halifax or life insurance agent Halifax , my name , along with several others , will come up . You can use the same method to find a life insurance broker in your community .
A term life insurance policy does not earn interest , either in the cash value or face amount . It does not earn interest on the cash value because there is no cash value in term life . The death benefit is exactly what you purchased , and does not grow due to interest earned . Permanent insurance does earn interest . However , it is not as simple as putting money in a savings account and having the cash grow by a certain percent . A current illustration will show how your premium is applied to the costs in your policy , and how much it will grow at the stated interest rate .
There are two main types of life insurance . The first is term life insurance which has no cash value . Think of it as renting . The second type of life insurance is cash value life insurance . The most popular go by names like , whole life , universal life , indexed universal life and variable life . All of which have cash value that builds with time . If you have one of these types of plans , look for the pages marked `` illustrations '' . You will find a cash value column explaining how much cash is built up in a given year . Most policies allow you to take a `` cash loan '' against them and keep your coverage in force . You may also cash out completely or roll the cash value to another plan . You will find the average policy will not have cash value until coverage has been in force for about 5 years .
Whole Life -LRB- AKA , Ordinary Life -RRB- is more expensive because the insurance company is accepting a higher risk to provide the guarantees of contract . There are primarily two types of whole life contracts that guarantee both the face amount -LRB- death benefit -RRB- to the beneficiary and the internal tax-favored build up of cash values . Participating whole life offers the insured the opportunity to `` participate '' in the financial success of the underwriting carrier by providing the possibility of receiving a dividend at the end of each policy year . Dividends are not guaranteed and while they are presented as a percent -LRB- example : 5.2 % credited dividend rate -RRB- , they are not the same as simple interest . It involves a formula that takes into account the cash values in the in force policy along with the investment returns and claims experience of the insurance company in any given year . The policy owner can direct the company to use the dividend in any one of four to six ways , depending on the carrier . All but one of those options will not produce an incometax event . -LRB- Taking the dividend as cash , however , will . -RRB- Most whole life policyowners either choose to have the dividend purchase paid up additions of insurance -LRB- increasing the death benefit as well as the cash value of the policy -RRB- or to reduce premium with excess to purchase paid up additions . Non-participating whole life or interest-sensitive whole life does not pay a dividend . But , it most likely does provide some level of a guaranteed death benefit and guaranteed cash values . Some whole life policies now provide the opportunity to over-pay the guaranteed level premium for a period of time to turbo-charge the growth of the cash value which grows tax-deferred . This requires the addition of a paid-up additions rider -LRB- PUAR -RRB- and there are limitations on how much over-payment one can make . This capability has been touted by some financial planners as a way of being your own bank because access to and repayment of cash value loans are tax-favored . One avoids a lengthy wait for approval that a bank would need to approve a loan , as well . -LRB- Go to Amazon.com and search `` be your own bank '' for more details . -RRB- In the current unstable economic environment we are in , whole life hasexperienced a comeback in sales due to the safety and security of this type of insurance contract with tax-deferred inside build up of cash values producing rates of return higher than other fixed interest financial vehicles . However , some analysts minimizethose perceived advantages because historically market returns exceed cash value build up , and there can be dire consequences to the policy if cash values are not managed prudently . Reckless use of taking loans can result in the death benefit being greatly reduced or cause the policy to lapse with little or no value . Whole life is not suitable in all circumstances calling for the application of a life insurance policy . Those seeking direction and guidance should consult with an experienced insurance professional or knowledgeable Certified Financial Planner or other advising professional before purchasing any life insurance contract .
Term life insurance has a definitive ending . If you purchase 20 year term insurance it will end in 20 years . Other types of life insurance include Universal Life , Indexed Universal Life and Whole Life and each of these would be considered a type of permanent life insurance . Universal Life insurance can last your entire life if structured correctly . Universal Life can have a flexible premium which will allow the excess of premium above the actual cost of insurance to be credited to the cash value of the policy . Interest is credited to the cash value each month , adding to the cash value , once policy expenses are taken out . The interest percentage is set by the insurance company . Using the same flexible premium concept , when you determine the amount of interest to be credited to the policy by referencing a financial index such as the S&P 500 , it is an Indexed Universal Life -LRB- IUL -RRB- policy . No money is actually invested in the referenced stock market . The IUL can be designed to build up a large cash value over the years and that cash value grows tax deferred . If you need cash along the way , you can get a loan against your policy and use it for your own needs . Many people use an IUL to build cash value for college expenses or to supplement their retirement income . Whole Life insurance policies generally offer fixed premiums . In a participating whole life policy , the cash value inside the policy increases as the insurance company provides dividends based on the overall return on its investments . Earnings beyond those required to cover policy expenses go to the policy 's cash reserve from which you can borrow against during life 's journey or to supplement retirement income .
I 'll start out by saying that the best life insurance is the life insurance that is the right amount for your needs and is affordable to you . For the most part , it does n't matter whether it 's whole life , term life , or some combination of the two . Whole life is good for a number of reasons : It 's the best way to cover a permanent need - The dividends and cash value build over time and , over a long period of time , the cash value may be more than the premiums you 've paid essentially making it free or better . Premiums are level - the premium you pay when you first get your whole life will be the same for your lifetime . It wo n't increase and , as long as you pay that premium , you 'll always have the policy . It 's flexible - the cash value in your policy is yours and you can do with it what you 'd like . You can take a loan of your cash value or take part of it out if you need to . But , be aware this may affect your future premiums or the death benefit . The cash value grows tax deferred - You do n't get a 1099 for the gain in your policy . You only pay income tax on the gain when you make a withdrawal . The gain in the cash value comes out last - When you make a withdrawal from your policy , your paid premiums come out first and , since you already paid tax on that money -LRB- usually -RRB- , you do n't owe any income tax until you 've withdrawn all your premiums . A couple of qualifiers . My statements apply to the usual scenarios where you pay your premiums from your net income . If there is an arrangement where the premiums are deducted from your income tax , all withdrawals may be taxable . Also , the death benefit may become taxable to the beneficiary . These are higher level arrangements that would take a lot longer to explain . Bottom line , whole life insurance is good because it does things that no other life insurance program can . Used for the correct situation , it 's the best at what it does . Find a good agent that will take the time to evaluate what you need and build a program that covers what you need at a price you can afford . The best life insurance is the insurance you have in force . If you ca n't afford it and let it lapse , it does n't do anything . Trust your agent and listen to their advice .
Yes , cash value life insurance can work as an investment . That said , comparing the returns of the stock market to a life insurance policy is sort of a fools errand . Why ? RISK . Risk is the thing that keeps people up at night , worried about their investments panning out or not . When you consider cash value life as part of your financial plan , you are choosing a conservative , low return , very low risk choice . This may free you up to be more aggressive in other investment options as your cash values become a fall back or `` if I screw up elsewhere , I 've still got this '' investment . Will cash values provide stock market returns while maintaining the relative safety ? Nope . Stock Market returns require taking Stock Market risks . The up and down of a portfolio . Cash Value life will in most cases continue to move upward over time slowly moving upward . While that does n't sound exciting , a few years back when the market slapped everybody back ten years , my cash values continued to grow as they do n't go backwards . Something to think about as you plan for your life . Cash value plans provide if you do n't come home and they provide if you do come home .
The cash value is the portion of whole life insurance that has built up so far in your cash account . Think of it like money in the bank . The way whole-life is designed , it has a level premium for the length of the policy or until it is paid off . What 's really happening is as the cash account grows , the actual insured amount reduces by the same amount . You become more and more self-insured each year . If you buy $ 100,000 whole-life policy , in the begining your insured amount is $ 100,000 and your cash value is zero . Many years later your cash value is $ 40,000 and the insured amount is $ 60,000 for a total death benefit of $ 100,000 . Several more years later your cash value is $ 90,000 and the Insured amount is $ 10,000 for a death benefit of $ 100,000 If you live to age that the policy endows -LRB- usually age 95 or 100 on older policies and age 121 on newer ones -RRB- the cash value is $ 100,000 and the insured amount is zero . You are now self insured . You can use the cash value while you are living by taking policy loans which are actually loans against the cash build up in your policy not actually withdrawals from the policy or you can cash surrender the policy and walk away with the cash . If you have a participating policy that pays dividends , you can have additional cash value and death benefit build up from that .
Universal life insurance can be variable or fixed . They are simply two different types of Universal Life . Here are the basic definitions : Variable Universal Life -LRB- VUL -RRB- is a form of life insurance that can build cash value . The cash value can be invested in separate accounts -LRB- similar to mutual funds -RRB- and the owner of the policy gets to choose which separate accounts are chosen , within the scope of what that particular product offerings are . The word `` variable '' refers to the fact the owner can invest in accounts that vary in value such as stocks and bonds . This variable component results in the cash value in your VUL increasing above or decreasing below what you put in . Universal Life -LRB- UL -RRB- is a form of permanent life insurance where the excess in premium payments are credited to the cash value of the policy . If the cash value is referenced against a stock index such as the S&P 500 , it is called an Indexed Universal Life -LRB- IUL -RRB- policy . An IUL does not put your money in the market but rather references the performance of that market over a measured period of time -LRB- such as a year -RRB- and credits you with interest if the referenced index has increased . Typically , the cash value of an IUL will not decrease as the result of that market declining - they would simply not credit your cash value account with interest for that particular year .
There are several reasons . With cash value life insurance such as whole life , you do not have to worry about prmiums going up as you get older and most likely to need the insurance . The cash value can help provide a buffer if your financial situation changes . Every whole life policy as nonforfiture options in the contract . The cash value can help conserve a poliy utilizing thes options . If you can not afford the premiums any longer the cash value can be used to buy a reduced paid up policy according to a schedule in your policy . You can also stop making payments and the policy will continue in-force with the cash value buying extended term insurance until the cash value is used up . You can cash surrender the policy and get some equity . When you deduct the cash value of a policy from the total premiums you pay you will see that in the long run cash value insurance was far less expensive than buing term . You can also take a loan on your cash value that is very interest friendly and will have no repayment schedule , although it is always best to at least pay the interest since the amount of the loan would be deducted from the face amount when you die .
Your Life Insurance policy will have the specifics of the `` Grace Period '' that provides and cushion for you when you miss a payment . Life Insurance companies usually want youto keep you policy . Their Grace Period is usually 30 to 60 days depending on the policy and the company . The type of policy will make a difference as well . A Term Life Insurance policy does not have any `` Cash Value '' or a side account that can grow at an interest rate like a savings account and cover the missed premium . This `` Cash Value '' is a feature of a Universal Life policy . The Term Life policy would be in danger of lapsing much quicker and you are probably going to cancelled quicker . A Universal Life policy with cash value is going to use the saving portion to pay the premium . The Universal Life will lapse once the cash value is depleted and the grace period expires . You can call your agent or Life Insurance company and work out options on the Universal Life policy such as lower the `` Face Amount '' or amount of death benefit to help you make the policy last longer . `` Whole Life Insurance '' will have a grace period as well . Coverage options beyond the grace period become more complicated . This Whole Life policy also has a `` Cash Value '' or savings portion as well . You will be subject to the policy 's `` Non Forfeiture Options '' within the policy . These options are different for each policy . You will have to check your policy . Usually , there are 3 options : Return of the cash value to you minus any loans you took out , you can change to a lower amount of insurance that is `` Paid Up '' or you do not have to pay premiums for the amount of death benefit , or you can change to a `` Term Life Insurance '' policy for a specific period of time then the insurance stops .
Cash surrender value in lie insurance is the amount of money you would walk away with if you decided to end a permanent policy before you passed away , or before the policy matured . Term life insurance does not have any cash value , so has no cash surrender value . In Whole Life or Universal Life , there is a surrender charge deducted from the cash value the first years , so there may be little or no cash surrender value until you have had the Whole Life or Universal Life policy for a few years . The amount of surrender value will depend on how you funded the policy , whether you had any loans out against it , policy performance , and length of time the policy was in effect .
The concept of borrowing from a life insurance policy , whether it is a whole life or universal life insurance policy , is taxes . The idea of cash value life insurance is the ability to accumulate cash that is tax deferred . You may later in life or in your retirement be able to borrow down your cash value . This does two good things for you . It keeps your death benefit in tact , but can lower it as cash value is depleted and because you are borrowing your own money and the insurance company is charging you very low interest rate , Uncle Sam considers the money a loan and not income . This means your money is income tax free . Always seek the advice of your agent or company . There are a few caveats that you should be aware of while you are borrowing against your cash value life insurance policy , but it can be a very effective tool for you to use in retirement . You also have the choice to repay the cash value or not . Beware of cashing out your cash value life insurance policy because those proceeds are taxable .
Life insurance that has a cash value can be cashed in . When it is cashed in , the policy ends . There are some other options , such as borrowing from the cash value , that could be considered if you want to keep your policy in effect . Term life insurance does not have a cash value , and some permanent policies do not have more than a negligible cash value for years , or never generate much cash value . Those type of policies could be stopped , but could not be technically cashed in because there would be no cash to collect .
Do term life insurance policies have a cash surrender value ? Usually they do not . Cash value is essentially needed in a policy to keep the premium level . You pay more in early years and some of the premium is left after covering the risk for the year and it grows the amount at risk to the insurance company decreases . Might be easier to understand the concept using a $ 100.000 non-participating level premium whole life . The cost of insurance at age 40 is much less than at age 85 . You pay a level premium and there is a build up of guaranteed cash that grows at a guaranteed interest rate inside the policy . If you were to die at age 85 , you beneficiary receives the $ 100,000 face amount of the policy . The cash value build up is not paid separately , but is part of the death benefit . Most term policies are as the name suggest are for a specified term . The cash value is theoretically there to keep the premium level , but there is no cash surrender value . Some policies with a longer term for example 30 year term policies do have cash surrender values . These are just general guidelines and you would need to check the policy wordings to be sure . Working with an independent insurance broker , you should be able to find the right policy at the right price . If you have further questions , or feel that I could be of assistance , please do not hesitate to contact me . If you would like to work with a local life insurance broker , you could start with a Google search . For example , if you search for : life insurance broker Halifax or life insurance agent Halifax , my name , along with several others , will come up . You can use the same method to find a life insurance broker in your community .
There are three categories of life insurance : Ordinary Insurance , Industrial Insurance , and Group Insurance . When you go to purchase a policy , you are looking for Ordinary Insurance , and it comes in the following types : 1 -RRB- Term Life Insurance This comes in Level term , Increasing Term , and Decreasing Term . But almost all policies sold now are level term , which stay at the same face amount for the full amount of the term . Term Life is temporary coverage that expires at the end of a certain number of years , unless one is able/chooses to renew or convert them . They do not usually have any cash value and if will lapse if premiums get more than a month behind . 2 -RRB- Whole Life Insurance Comes in Straight Whole Life , Limited Pay Whole Life , and Single Premium Whole Life , named after how long one pays the premiums -LRB- the shorter the years one pays the premium , the higher the premium -RRB- . There are also a number of other forms of Whole Life that differ by other features than how long the premium is paid . Whole Life is permanent , stays in effect for one 's `` whole life '' . Has cash value that can be borrowed against or used to pay premiums . If dropped after a certain length of time will have a cash surrender value or can become a reduced paid up policy . 3 -RRB- Endowment Policies Cash values grow rapidly so that the policy endows at maturity and the face amount can be collected , even if still alive . 4 -RRB- Nontraditional Life Insurance Universal Life , Indexed Universal Life , Interest Sensitive Whole Life , and variable products belong in this category . They all have features that make them different from one another , but all have the ability to provide permanent coverage and have cash value .
end question
start question
retirement-plans
How Does A Stay At Home Mom Save For Retirement ?
A stay at home mom can have an IRA or a Roth IRA . The payments to an IRA are deductible from current income tax ; those for the Roth IRA are not . The benefits from the IRA at retirement are taxed as ordinary income while those from the Roth IRA are not taxed at all . There is n't any current taxation for money held in either plan during accumulation .
This is a very relevant question because there is not a black-and-white answer to it . Lets suppose you have a family where mom does stay at home with the kids . Tragically , she dies . What is the best possible thing that can happen with these kids ? Really , its for dad to stay home with them . Theyve already lost mom . They are going to need their dad more than they ever have . He is THE parent . Dad may want to keep working and hire a Mary Poppins-type nanny , but that is the second best solution by far . He really should stay home from work to the greatest extent possible and just connect and bond and nurture and comfort these kids through what may be the most devastating occurrence in their life . Obviously , he will need money to be able to afford to stay home . That is what I think is the number one function of life insurance on a stay-at-home mom . This is a hard sell to insurance companies these days , because they keep thinking in terms of percentage of the wager earners coverage , and on and on . But if I get a couple who really want dad to stay home if the family does lose mom , I fight hard to get them a policy to make that happen .
Purchasing life insurance as a stay at home mom makes sense in most cases . Just because there is not an income to replace , there is certainly an expense to replace . Having my wife as a stay at home mom for many years , I would not have considered not insuring the risk of her early death . Having a stay at home mom allows working men the time to earn a good living while not having to worry about other things . A stay at home mom not only cares for the children , but cooks , cleans , runs errands , pays bills , handles household affairs and much more . If the stay at home mom were to die , it would cost an estimated $ 80,000 per year to hire child care , a cook , a housekeeper and someone to run errands just so the household stayed intact and life could continue . I would consider your exact replacement expenses and the number of years before the children are self sufficient . Purchase ten times that amount in life insurance . It is a risk too large to ignore .
Dear Stay @ Home Mom , I agree with David . It depends . It depends on the family situation and financial condition in the event that the Stay at Home Mom would pass away and no longer be able to contribute to the family . Above and beyond the emotional/social value of the parent , there is an economic value that is considered . You may have heard the term `` Human Life Value '' in relation to life insurance . As difficult as it is to do this , it is an attempt to place a monetary value on the contributions of the person who passes away . In the case of a Stay @ Home Mom , the income of the working spouse in addition to the family savings allows the mom to stay home and take care of the children . If she passed away , the surviving spouse would most likely have to pay for day care . So simply projecting out just the additional cost of daycare could be a starting point ... I hope that sheds some light on it , and hopefully that serves as a starting point to talk to a local professional who can help you and your spouse choose the best life insurance coverage for you !
If you were to hire workers to provide all the services that a stay at home mom performs each day , the cost would be staggering . So it is important not to underestimate how much life insurance to purchase on a stay at home mother or father . However , with most life insurance companies , the stay at home parent will only be able to purchase the amount of coverage that is on their `` working outside the home '' partner . Therefore , when you look at how much insurance to purchase for your family , you will need to look at the whole picture . Most people buy enough life insurance to replace at least 5-10 years of income , or financial value , as in the case of a stay at home mom or dad .
Most carriers will only issue a policy for a face amount equal to or less than the amount of coverage you have on your spouse . So you 've got to think about how much coverage your spouse has , what debts you need/want paid off , do you need it for income replacement , . etc. . Many people think that if their spouse does not produce an income , then they do not need coverage . This is the wrong way to look at it . Just because a spouse may be a stay-at-home mom or dad , does n't mean they do n't need coverage . In many homes , a stay-at-home spouse often maintains the house , the yard , buys the groceries , cooks , etc. . If the spouse passed away , would you do these tasks ? Or would you pay to have someone else do them ? Are you going to do them yourself ? All of these factor into the decisions . In short , while a stay-at-home spouse may not generate income , he/she may greatly reduce personal expenses . How much does that total up to over a given number of years ? It 's helpful to consult with an experienced broker who can help you determine how much coverage is suitable to your needs and budget . Please feel free to contact me for help or if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
Video Transcript : Today 's question is , `` How much life insurance should a stay at home mom have ? '' Well if a stay at home mom is the only earner , she 's a single income with children , she needs to look at all the liabilities that she has today . So if she has indebtedness , whether it 's credit card , mortgage , or any kind of auto payments , she 'll want to look at those or future obligations for her children where she may have college education , or retirement plans for them . She 'll want to be able to do some kind of coverage that she can do to protect them in case something happens to them . And remember if they have an ex-spouse involved , you 'll want to make sure that that person also has insurance on them so if something happens to him that mom and the child are taken care of .
When ever I have discussed coverage options for a woman who is a stay at home Mom , we center on the value that her effort and dedication add to the running of that family home and the raising of the children in that home . We talk about the going rate for child care , home maintenance , and all the important things that seem so easily forgotten when one uses that phrase to describe that it means to be a stay at home Mom . We talk about what the impact , financially , it would be if she were to suddenly die . Would her spouse be able to walk into the boss and expect to receive an immediate 6 figure raise ? Probably not .
Is life insurance necessary for a single person ? I will answer based on my reasons for having life insurance when I was a single person , it is up to the reader to decide if that is a good reason or not . As a single person , I still had a mom , and had I died , it would fall upon mom to clean up my stuff . In no particular order the reasons for owning life insurance at that point in time in my life . I just died , I 'm sure that 's a whammy to my mom . I just died without life insurance sorry for the `` double whammy '' mom . My service ? Mom , I 'm sure you can borrow the money to bury me . Or tap your retirement plan or home equity ... My debts ? Well I 'm sure you do n't mind the calls and letters or even that college loan you cosigned for me paying it back after I just died . Time off your work mom ? I 'm sure if I die on a Saturday , you 'll be back at work on Mondaylike nothing happened and certainly your bills are paid well enough in advance that you can take unpaid time off to grieve . My dog , mom . Here 's my dog . take care of him for me will ya ? If I have n't listed enough reasons for a single person to consider the need for life insurance , well I guess I did it for dumb reasons . It could be your mom , dad , brother , sister or a good friend , why buy life insurance as a single person ? Cause you care enough about the people who care enough about you . For me , it was my mom . Now it 's my wife and kids . They actually would hate to lose me , I actually would hate to put a burden on their shoulders when I die , tomorrow or 50 years from now .
When you purchase life insurance as a stay at home mom , most insurance companies will limit your coverage to the amount of life insurance that is on the breadwinner in the home . So start out by making sure that whoever is bringing home the main paycheck has enough life insurance on him/her . Then I would suggest getting the same amount of coverage as he/she has . If the breadwinner would pass away , you would have more expenses because you would have to hire the services you provide . And depending on your circumstances , you may or may not be able to earn as much as he/she does . So take advantage of the opportunity to get the full amount of life insurance that the breadwinner in your home has . You certainly deserve it .
I was a stay at home mom for 13 years , and most of us moms make that choice because we want our children to have the best and most trusted care possible . If you were to pass , no one could replace you . But you would want your husband to find the next best possible caregiver for your child -LRB- ren -RRB- . The benefits from a life insurance policy could help him do that .
It depends , is there someone who will have to take care of your stuff and clean up your situation if you pass ? In other words , you may be single , but is there somebody who loves you enough to be that person who handles your service , settles your stuff and maybe empties your apartment or home . Usually it 's your mom . The question only you can answer is how much more difficult do you want to make it for your mom ? Is n't losing a child -LRB- no matter what age -RRB- for a mom , hard enough ? Would you want to add to the pain by having her come up with the money to take care of what you leave behind ? Do you want her to forgo wages because of your situation ? For me , as a young man long before insurance as a career came into place , the idea of being single and owning life insurance made sense . I simply did n't want to crush my mom under the burdens of losing me , paying for my service , dealing with my stuff . I know usually somebody will whip out some `` math '' to get you not do what I suggest and that 's fine . Sometimes the `` Math '' simply does n't matter . Your choice .
You are not unique . Studies show that less than twenty percent of those without an active plan for retirement feel confident about retiring . Here are four strategies that you can pursue if you are unsure that you can retire on the income you will receive when you retire . The first strategy is to increase your savings for retirement now . As people approach retirement they frequently lose responsibility for children , their mortgage may become paid-off and their disposable income might climb . Seizing this opportunity to increase saving for retirement is crucial . If your employer matches what you put into a retirement or savings program try to make a matching contribution to the company plan . Be careful about putting excessive money into the company plan as the investments contained in the portfolio might now reflect your risk tolerance and you could become quite worried over them . Maximum contributions increase on certain retirement savings programs and you should explore the opportunity that could afford to you . Make sure your retirements savings are coordinated . A retirement income expert could be very helpful in this regard . There are severe penalties if you inadvertently overfund a pension or retirement savings plan . If you are saving all you legally can for retirement you should then focus on reducing debt . The less debt that you carry into retirement the higher your satisfaction will be . At a minimum eliminate any credit card debt and installment purchase debt . Discuss with your accountant the wisdom of reducing or eliminating a mortgage . The second strategy would be to get better performance from your investments . This can be a reason to sit down with someone who specializes in retirement portfolios . You could have investments that have underperformed for a while and have little prospects of rebounding . This might be the time to adjust your assets so that you are better able to reach your retirement goals . The third strategy is often overlooked and yet it is the most obvious . You might be able to work longer . Forty percent of retirees start retirement because of some unforeseen event and at a date that they had not selected . The illness of parents , spouse or children can often force an early retirement . As you approach retirement make an inventory of your marketable skills and interests . Focus your attention on what you want to do and develop the expertise to move into that area whenever retirement starts . If this means staying at your current employer that can be negotiated most of the time . Some people negotiate for reduced hours , or returning to the exact same job as a consultant . If you like your work and you like those you work with , dont think that you must quit because you have reached some arbitrary age . Working longer is the quickest way to enhance your retirement income . My brother could probably work into his 90s because he was a programmer over fifty years and knows some proprietary computer languages that are still being used , but few people can program them . The fourth strategy is to decide to live on less . If this is going to be your strategy , start reducing your standard of living now . Waiting until the day you retire to downsize can bring more trauma than you want . You can live on less now , save the difference . Then when you retire you can keep marching along . This can include moving to a smaller , less difficult to manage single story home . This could mean resuming cooking rather than eating in restaurants . It usually will include reducing the number of cars . For some this will mean establishing a joint residence with a child . While this can be done , planning is essential . Your childs idea might be putting you in the middle bedroom and that might not be desirable . These are practical strategies that anyone can follow to increase the likelihood that your assets will not be exhausted in your retirement and that you can enjoy your retirement . Planning is really the key to having a successful retirement .
A stay at home mom can have an IRA or a Roth IRA . The payments to an IRA are deductible from current income tax ; those for the Roth IRA are not . The benefits from the IRA at retirement are taxed as ordinary income while those from the Roth IRA are not taxed at all . There is n't any current taxation for money held in either plan during accumulation .
Does a stay at home mom need disability insurance ? Yes , I would n't argue the need , the problem would be finding a company that would underwrite a homemaker disability policy . The basic element for any disability policy is a W2 or 1099 to prove income . Without one , I ca n't think of a disability carrier that would write such a policy .
That is a great question ! There are a couple of reasons why your homeowner 's insurance company would ask for your sister 's renters policy . If your Sister filed a claim in conjunction with your Mom , your Mom 's company would want to assess what would be covered under the terms of that policy , and what they would be responsible for under theirs . They may also be trying to determine who is responsible for paying for the temporary housing costs , and for how long that coverage extends under each policy . They may also be trying to determine if some household items were listed under both policies , and filed as claims by both Mom and your sister . Neither wants to pay for something that the other will , if they do n't have to , you know ? It 's a pretty standard practice for insurance companies to communicate between themselves as much is as legally permitted , so that they can make the proper determinations on who is obligated to pay for what , and that payments are not duplicated . I would not worry too much about it . Thank you for asking , and I 'm glad that neither your Mom or Sister were hurt - that is more important than any of their things .
Suze Orman recommends long-term care insurance , if it fits and one can medically qualify for it . She is currently taking care of her 90-year old mother who refused to letSuze buy long-term care insurance on her when she could have qualified for it . Of course , Suze has the means to keep her mother at home to the tune of about $ 25,000 / month . That 's what 24/7 skilled nursing care costs at this point in time . A facility would cost less , but mom naturally wants to stay home as long as possible . Suze is fortunate to have the means to have that happen . Ironically , Suze waited too long to apply for her own long-term care insurance . In waiting , she developed some type of medical condition that precluded her from qualifying for coverage when she did apply . In virtually all of her commentary on planning for retirement , Suze mentions the need to at least explore the financial prudence of applying for some amount of long-term care insurance . Long-term care insurance is not for everyone . But , everyone should have a plan for being taken care of during late life and insurance might be part of that plan .
What does Dave Ramsey think of Annuities ? Not really sure as I do n't follow Dave Ramsey that much . Dave is the current financial `` guru '' gracing the airwaves . There were many before Dave and there will be many after Dave . While Dave 's message about getting out of debt and staying out of debt is a fine one , similar to the one my mom told me many years ago , Dave does n't always understand financial products that well as honest advice on them might conflict with his message .
Long Term Care Insurance is a good purchase if there is a risk of needing nursing home , assisted living , or home health care in your future . My father waited too long to get long term care insurance , and no longer qualified for it . It would have been nice to have that extra income to help my mom care for him . There are so many ways that people can be laid up , and hospitals are reluctant to allow people to stay too long . So long term care insurance can be a very good purchase for helping those who need the care , and for those who give it .
Hi Mom ! Great question ! If I understand your question correctly , you are asking how much insurance should I purchase ? I 'd suggest that you figure out what it would cost to have to pay for your services , should that have to happen . Include the cost of meals , snacks , and whatever else you are providing that a childcare facility would charge you for . Then I would add in the cost of your funeral expenses . Take a good look at your budget - what can you safely afford to spend each month ? Take that number , and decide whether you are better off with a term policy or a whole life policy , that you can let grow for awhile . If you would like help with this , please feel free to contact me , I 'd be glad to make time for you . I have a ton of respect for stay at home parents , it is a real job . Thanks for asking !
end question
start question
medicare-insurance
How To Make A Claim At Medicare ?
I am not aware of any way for an individual to file a claim with Medicare . Medicare requires medical providers to file claims directly on your behalf and do so on a timely basis . Claims are filed electronically , adjudicated by Medicare , and then Medicare files your approved claim with your Medigap carrier via crossover .
When this question is asked I am not sure if you mean the best insurance company with coverage 's and claims or the who has the best rates . Let 's address rates first : There is no company who has the best rates as there are many varying factors that can make one insurance company rise to the top over another as it pertains to premium . In other words who has the best rate for me may not be the best for you , and we could live right next door to each other . Now lets move on to the more important issue and that is coverage 's : What you have to understand is most insurance companies have varying options/packages of coverage 's available to purchase . In most cases agents tend to offer the cheapest package which does not maximize coverage 's that are potentially available to the client . I suggest when shopping for insurance that you truly consult with your agent about the different options available by an insurance company so you can make an educated decision on the coverage you wish to purchase and how much of the risk you yourself wish to assume . As an independent agent I am able to offer quotes and coverage 's from multiple companies to help my clients make the most informed decision about their most important asset , and that is their home . Now the next subject would be claims : Which insurance company continues to rise to the top in claims handling . There are many independent websites which you do a quick search on and find ratings on how well claims are handled and their overall customer satisfaction and loyalty . There are many companies that are great in the claims area that I bet you have never even heard of . You will also find negatives on every insurance company out there without exception . Most of the negatives are due to coverage 's not being in place that the client thought they had . Or in other words . A lack of understanding their policy . This goes back to my suggestion on being educated on the coverage 's available to you . There are many independent online reviews available to you -LRB- some good , some not so good -RRB- that will give you ratings on how well the claims experience is for clients and how insurance companies rank in the claims department . But there is one thing that I believe is very critical to the claims process and that is your agent . An absentee agent can make the process very frustrating if you are having some communication difficulty with the insurance company . An agent that is actually working for you can help make any unfortunate claims experience must less painful then it needs to be . So never take the agent out of the equation when shopping for homeowners insurance . So with all that being said , my parting advice is do your research , consult and ask lots of questions from your agent . Do n't be shy are think it 's a dumb question because it 's not . After all , were talking about your home .
Medicare Advantage is a private form of Medicare run by insurance companies . When you enroll in a Medicare Advantage plan you are no longer participating in original Medicare . Your doctor and other providers file claims with your Advantage insurance carrier , not with Medicare . Your Advantage carrier adjudicates the claim and pays it if approved . Advantage plans are not a supplement to Medicare , they replace Medicare . Amplification . Some people are confused about this since Advantage plans are often referred to as Medicare Part C . When you enroll in an Advantage plan your benefits are provided by an insurance carrier that is a sub-contractor of Medicare . Other than your Medicare Part B premium -LRB- which is still paid to Medicare , or deducted from your Social Security check -RRB- premiums -LRB- if any -RRB- for your benefits are paid to the Advantage carrier . Medicare does not review or adjudicate claims . Medicare does not resolve claim disputes you may have with your Advantage carrier . All of your benefits are covered and provided by your Advantage policy . If you decide to drop your Advantage coverage you have a right to switch to original Medicare . Original Medicare and Medicare Advantage are two separate and distinct systems of providing health insurance . Advantage plans cover the same medical conditions as Medicare -LRB- except Advantage carriers will not issue a policy if you have ESRD -RRB- but the benefits and administration are completely separate . Consider this . Medicare Part D is an insured benefit you purchase from an insurance carrier . The drug plans are not offered direct by Medicare and your claims are handled by the insurance carrier or the PBM that manages the coverage for them . Medicare Part C and D are completely independent from Medicare .
A Personal Auto Policy -LRB- PAP -RRB- generally comes with five coverages included in the premium . 1 . Auto Liability ... protects you from claims other people make against you arising from auto accidents 2 . Uninsured/Underinsured Motorists Liability -LRB- UIM -RRB- ... protects you for claims you make against other drivers who do not have insurance or do not have enough insurance 3 . Medical Payments ... pays money to doctors and hospitals for your medical expenses arising out of auto accidents 4 . Collision ... pays for damage to your car arising out of auto accidents where you collide with another car or object , like a tree . 5 . Comprehensive ... pays for damage to your car arising out accidents that are other than collision , for example , flood , fire and theft . When you ask , `` How Much Auto Insurance Do I Need ? '' , I 'm assuming you mean # 1 , Auto Liability so I 'll limit my answer to that coverage . In subsequent postings , I 'll answer how much you need for the other coverages . So , how much Auto Liability Insurance do you need ? It depends . If you just want to get on the road and be legal about it , in New Jersey , the minimum limit of insurance is $ 35,000 for each accident . You are also required to purchase Uninsured/Underinsured Motorists Liability and Medical Payments and they also have minimum limit requirements . Other states have similar minimum limit requirements and they are spelled out at each state 's insurance department website . Minimum limit policies will get you on the road , but they are not a smart use of your dollars . Consider an auto accident where you strike a Lawyer 's Mercedes ... his new Mercedes . Think $ 35,000 will take care of everything ? I would n't bet on it . And if $ 35,000 is not enough , you 'll pay personally for a long time . Now , if your primary goal is adequate protection for you , your family and your assets , you need to take a step back . Liability claims against you arising out of the use of an auto is one area you should be concerned about . You should also be concerned about liability claims arising out of owning a home , operating a boat or a motorcycle or an RV . Liability claims can also arise from owning vacation property . You can trigger a claim . Your spouse can trigger a claim and your children can trigger a claim . Considering all the people in your life who can trigger a claim and all the ways they can do it , How much is enough liability insurance ? How much should you buy ? Answer : I do n't know . But I do know EVERY smart insurance consumer , concerned about `` how much insurance is enough ? '' should purchase a $ 1 million Personal Umbrella Policy . A Personal Umbrella Policy is a secondary policy . Your auto policy , homeowner policy , boat policy , and so on are all primary policies . Each primary policy has its own limit of insurance . In the event of an accident -LRB- in the home , in the car or on the water -RRB- , you have a primary policy to protect you . If the amount of primary insurance is not enough to pay a claim , the Personal Umbrella policy adds a million dollar cushion . Is a Personal Umbrella policy expensive ? No . A million dollar umbrella GENERALLY starts around $ 125 . That 's $ 125 for $ 1,000,000 of liability protection you can use over your auto insurance or your homeowner insurance or your boat insurance and so on and so on . If there is a better deal in the insurance business , I 'm not aware of it . Now if you 're sold on the idea that a Personal Umbrella Policy has merit , we need to return to your original question : `` How much Auto Liability Insurance do I need ? '' You need an amount of insurance that satisfies the minimum requirements of the Personal Umbrella Policy . For example , if your Personal Umbrella Policy requires you have a $ 300,000 Personal Auto Liability Limit , that 's what you need to buy for your auto policy . If the requirement is $ 300,000 and you have $ 250,000 , there will be a $ 50,000 gap in the event of a serious claim . Again , for example , you 're responsible for a serious auto accident . It ends up costing $ 600,000 . Your auto policy will pay $ 250,000 , you 'll have to pay $ 50,000 and then the umbrella will pay the remaining $ 300,000 . So you can see , you need to buy the correct amount of auto and home insurance and the correct amount for any other primary policy so you do n't have a gap in coverage . Can you buy a Personal Umbrella Policy with a limit higher than $ 1 million ? You can , but the higher the limit , the greater the scrutiny . I hope I 've answered your question , but if I have n't , feel free to call , fax or email me .
When you need to file a Homeowners Insurance Claim , the best and quickest way to handle it is to call the CLAIMS Telephone number listed on your Homeowners Insurance declarations page . Most carriers have a 24 Hour reporting line for claims ; the station is staffed by an individual trained to take an initial report and pass it on to the assigned claims adjustor based on the type of claim and geographical location of the loss . Once the preliminary report is taken , a claims number is assigned , an adjustor is assigned and the preliminary record is report to the National Database also known as CLUE ; CLUE is a tool used industry wide to review prior claims activity on homes . The CLUE report will later be updated eventual showing the Closed Status and total amount paid by the insurance carrier to resolve the claim . When making the initial claim report , it is beneficial to only offer a simple and general explanation of the nature of the loss ; it is always better to give all the details directly to the claims adjustor as the initial claims report is usually not taken by a person licensed and trained with the capabilities of the insurance adjustor.In most cases , the insurance carrier will assign and adjustor who will make an initial contact within 1 business day . The adjustor will make an appointment to come out and review the damages claimed , a detailed estimate of the required repairs will be prepared and the adjustor willinterpret the policy to determine if and to what extent coverage applies to the damage incurred ; the final process will be a resolution letter mailed to the insured with a full accounting of the situation and perhaps an associated check for repairs . In some cases , an initial payment may be offered holding back thedepreciated portion of the loss until thedamages or items are replaced after which the carrier will reimburse the insured for the full replacement cost of the items as long as the policy coverseverything on a replacement cost basis . Any specificquestions regarding a loss should be directly discussed with the claims adjustorwho is licensed and responsible to handle the complete transaction and explain the processto the insured . Prior to any claim occurrence , it may alsobe a good idea to contact a licensed insurance representative to learn the process and best recommended method of handling thesituation should youencounter a claim .
Rates going up for making your first claim can vary by carrier . Many insurance carriers offer a claim free discount so making a claim can remove this discount which looks to the consumer as a rate increase . Also the type of claim can make a difference if the rates are effected or not . There are many variables and so I recommend you always consult with your local agent on how a claim may effect your rates or eligibility .
No you can not `` run out of Medicare '' , Medicare does not have a lifetime cap . This means that your medicare coverage will pay according to its current coverage level for as long as your claims are being approved . However , Medicare can deny a claim based on a number of factors on a case by case basis . If a claim is denied by Medicare you will not be covered for that particular treatment . A denied claim does not mean that your medicare has been completely exhausted , it just means that Medicare has determined the treatment does not qualify for coverage . If you have a Medicare Supplement plan you should know that if Medicare denies a claim your supplement plan will not pay at all . If you would like more information on you medicare supplement coverage please visit www.themedigapmarket.com or for more info on your medicare coverage www.medicare.gov .
How can I minimize the amount I pay for auto insurance ? There are two sides to the insurance premium question . The first side is the dollars going to the insurance company . The other side is the dollars coming from the insurance company when you have a claim . The most expensive insurance policy is one that does not adequately protect you when you have a claim . If you have low liability limits and do several hundred thousand s of dollars in damage you might find your assets and income making up the difference when you have a claim and that could be devastating . When you look at the premium for a recent model car you will discover that the pricing is fairly evenly split between liability coverage and physical damage coverage . In a very general way this means that in an accident you can expect your car to receive as much damage as the other car . Different cars have different repair costs . These costs are determined by taking the results of actual claims and tracking the costs . Some cars have technology that makes them expensive to repair . Others have design features that make them expensive to repair . The safety features on some cars reduce the cost of repair . A client was making a search for a car based upon the total cost of operation . It was very interesting as we compared different makes and models . We were using the same approximate year so the comparison was just on the manufacturer and the different models being considered . The prices varied more than I would have anticipated . It seemed that the more curb appeal the car had , the more likely it was to be a repair shop nightmare . As a car ages its potential repair costs start to come close to its actual cash value . While the price for the physical damage insurance also starts to reduce there might well be a time when you consider the potential loss of your car to be negligible and then you should remove physical damage coverage . I have been startled by people who maintain physical damage on cars approaching 20 years of service . There is a sentimental attachment that is extremely important . Liability premiums also vary somewhat with the horsepower and weight of the vehicle . Sporty , high powered cars can do a lot of damage and statistically are more frequently involved in accidents than low powered plain models . I am often asked about whether or not a specific model is being treated as a sports car . The customer wants to argue the merits of the car . The fact is that the car has been rated on its own claims history and the rate is determined , not by logic , but by experience . It helps to understand the rating system for liability insurance . The year make and model are the starting point as some vehicles are more frequently involved in accidents than others . The second is the driving record and claims history of the principle operator and other drivers in the household . The companies weigh these driving records quite closely . The third factor , in California , is the number of miles the vehicle is used . Obviously every mile has a component of risk exposure so a vehicle being used 40,000 miles a year has a greater exposure to claim than one only being operated 400 miles a year . The next factor is where you live . Rural areas have fewer accidents than urban and some urban areas are worse than others . These factors are considered in determining a rate . Dont forget that the most expensive insurance is the policy that doesnt meet your needs when you have a claim .
You can always change insurance companies , there 's nothing to stop you . However , you may want to stick with what you have during a claim . Legally , an insurance company has to settle claims according to their policy whether you 're still insured with them or not . In practice , these are human beings working on your claim and they may not always give you consideration if you 've cancelled your coverage with them . Let 's look at an example . Let 's say you 've gotten into an accident and you 're car is in the body shop . You want OEM parts installed on your car , but the insurance company wants to use aftermarket parts because they cost less . They have more of an incentive to honor your request if you 're still insured with them because they see an opportunity to offset your claim with future premiums . Another factor to consider is the company you want to go to . They may not want to insure a car that has unrepaired damage . It 's totally up to the company . Now , in my experience , you would only ask the question if you do n't like how your claim is being handled . If you were totally satisfied , you would n't think about switching . My advice is to stay with your current company and negotiate with their claims department to get your claim settled to your satisfaction . Check your policy , all companies have an appeals process if you do n't agree with how your claim is being settled . Take advantage of it . You may get some consideration and a better settlement . If you 're still unsatisfied , you can always consider the courts , but this is a risky proposition unless you 're sure you 're in the right . After your claim is settled , you can explore new companies . A good agent will help you with claims if you 're not satisfied . They can not always ensure you 'll get what you want , but a good one will go to bat for you . In my opinion , finding the right advisor is the most important decision you make . In the long run , you 'll come out ahead even if they 're more expensive now . The cost of your coverage is n't just the premium , it 's what it costs you in time , money , and aggravation at claim time .
Home Insurance contracts differ in all States ; they are all governed by the Department/Division of Insurance dictating exactly how to abide by the rules of the particular State . Once abiding by the rules of each State , carriers also have differences in handling claims and policy adjustments thereafter . In States where a Claims Free discount is allowed , the discount will be removed on the following renewal if a claim has been filed , there may also be a claims surcharge assessed in addition . Some carriers have allowances for small claims below a certain pay out whereby the insured would lose the Claims Free discount but not be assessed a further surcharge.Since it will be close to impossible to get a clear answer to this question , the following is the best rule of thumb for policyholders : DO NOT USE YOUR INSURANCE POLICY AS A CHECK BOOK ! Property Insurance is meant to protect the insured against unforeseen and unaffordable sudden & accidental perils . The home should always be well maintained and display pride of ownership for ` preferred ' risks . For example , if due to high winds a branch would be blown off a tree and simply break a window or damage a few roof tiles , this is typically not what one would purchase insurance for ; on the other hand , if there is an unforeseen electrical fault causing a house fire or perhaps the occurrence of a devastating storm , this is where insurance becomes an essential part of the recovery process . Insurance contracts are designed with a Deductible ; the deductible is the amount deducted from a Claims Payout . The actual purpose of the Deductible is to reduce the carrier 's risk exposure to small claims , the lower the deductible , the higher the premium . Clients that purchase insurance with a higher deductible make a statement acknowledging that small claims will not be brought to the carrier thus prompting the carrier to accept a lower premium for a lower risk exposure . Once a claim is filed with a Home Insurance Carrier , a claims number is assigned and the claim is reported electronically to the National Claims Database -LRB- CLUE -RRB- . The purpose of this reporting process is for the industry to share information regarding the risk thereby deterring any dishonest practices in attempting to misrepresent risk to an alternate carrier at a future point . This is a great tool that has been used for many years preventing carriers from taking on adverse risk . The answer to this question was carefully orchestrated to provide a better understanding regarding the underwriting and claims process which would lead ultimately to premium assessment . It is strongly suggested that home owners fully understand this process and contact a licensed professional to answer any further questions regarding the process .
The other respondents explain that two basic triggers exist within common liability coverage policies . It is important to realize that most personal insurance - auto , home , motorcycle , rv - are based upon the occurrence trigger in the insurance policy . An occurrence is an event including repeated exposures to the same condition , that cause loss covered by the policy . You 'll understand that if the loss `` occurs '' during the policy period , the loss is coverable and a duty to defend exists until such time as it is determined after further investigation that coverage is not provided by the policy . At that time the carrier would probably extend a `` reservation of rights '' letter to you to notify you that the investigation of the loss events are revealing to the carrier that the loss is not covered for some reason contained within the policy or due to the events that occurred . Nevertheless , if the loss `` occurs '' during the period the policy was effective , and barring exclusions and limitations , their is coverage in an occurrence policy . A `` claims made '' policy changes what triggers the benefits of the policy . In the case of claims made coverage , generally only written on business and professional liability exposures , the trigger is the event and when it occurred . What is different now is that the claims must be first made during the period of coverage or a subsequent policy . If a claim is permitted to be made on subsequent policies , the chain of coverage needs to be uninterrupted and the `` retroactive '' date for coverage to be set to a point before the actual date of the loss . Claims Made policies were designed to help eliminate the chance that years and years of coverage on an occurrence policy could not be stacked one upon the other to generate large amounts of coverage . In the case of claims made policies , only the current policy limit is exposed to loss and not a stack of limits from policies covering prior annual periods . One other point that is necessary to understand . Generally , there are limitations on how long after a policy is cancelled for a claim to be presented . Occurrence policies are much more accommodating here . On the other hand , claims made policies have a limited period of time after the policy ends for a claim to be made . This is referred to as extended discovery and extended discovery on otherwise unendorsed policies is only 60 days . That is , you only have sixty days to present a claim for coverage at the end of a claims made policy . Additional extended periods of discovery are available at additional cost but each carrier may have different periods of discovery available . This feature on a claims made policy provides the `` tail '' of coverage that an occurrence policy includes without additional charge . A `` tail '' is the time beyond the period of coverage where a claim may be first reported or appear on the books of the carrier . Liability type losses can have a long `` tail '' due to the nature of the coverage and potential loss . Property losses , on the other hand , generally have short `` tails '' where the loss is not known . The reserve that the carrier must maintain within its accounting for these losses is not as the IBNR -LRB- incurred but not reported -RRB- loss reserve . Over time the carrier reduces this reserve in recognition that the further past the end of a policy that they travel , the less likely a loss has occurred or will be reported . This should help you understand just how much must taken into account to answer your generalized question . I hope this helps answer your question .
Any time you have a claim , Medicare must approve the medical necessity of that claim and the amount they will pay . If a claim is not approved Medicare will not pay . Medicare when paying claims has a set payment they will approve for a specific procedure based on how that procedure is billed . Medicare will only pay 80 % of that approved amount for Part B covered charges . A doctor can not bill for more than 15 % of the Medicare approved charges . Some states like Ohio do not allow the 15 % excess charges . A doctor who accepts Medicare can not balance bill for more than the approved amount .
Humana Choice PPO would be a Medicare Advantage plan . When you are on Medicare and have a Medicare Advantage plan , coverage falls under the benefits described in your Medicare Advantage plan . It does not get billed to Medicare first and then to the Medicare Advantage plan carrier -LRB- in this case Humana -RRB- or vice versa . It would only be billed through Humana - the carrier pays their portion and you would be responsible for the portion dictacted by the plan benefits -LRB- e.g. you may be responsible for a deductible and then a coinsurance/copayment amount , etc. -RRB- . Medicare Advantage plans are senior health insurance plans that work similarly to the under 65 health plans -LRB- deductibles , copays , coinsurances , max out of pocket expenses , networks , etc. -RRB- . In short , the gov ' t pays the carrier x number of dollars for each enrollee under the plan and the carrier takes the risk of expenses . So when you have a claim , the claim gets processed through the carrier rather than directly to Medicare . Medicare Supplement plans -LRB- also known as Medigap plans -RRB- operate as a supplement -LRB- key work there - supplement -RRB- to original Medicare -LRB- your Part A & Part B coverage -RRB- . When you have Medicare and a Medicare Supplement plan , the physician -LRB- or hospital or other facility -RRB- bills Medicare and then bills the carrier for their portion of charges - depending on which plan letter you have , you may be responsible for a small portion or nothing at all . The idea of a Medicare Supplement plan is to create a predictable expense structure for your healthcare needs rather than taking on a larger portion of risk of expenses on claims . Plus , the Medicare Supplement plan structure allows you to go to any doctor that takes Medicare , meaning no networks and they are not restricted to annual enrollment periods like Medicare Advantage plans are . If you want to take a look at a Medicare Supplement plan to see how it compares , I can help you with that . The Medicare Advantage Disenrollment Period -LRB- MADP -RRB- is from January 1 - February 14 of each year so you have an option to change if you decide to do so . Please note , depending on several factors , you may or may not be subject to medical underwriting for a Medicare Supplement plan -LRB- e.g. whether you are new to Medicare , this is your first time in a Medicare Advantage plan , whether you have a guaranteed-issue right , etc. - I can help determine this -RRB- . My contact information is cited on my agent profile - you can access it by clicking on the `` contact me '' button . I hope the information is helpful - please let me know if you have any other questions I can assist with . Thanks very much .
Claims will affect your home insurance but other variables are considered . Other variable include , how long you have been with the insurance company , how many claims you have filed , type of claims , payment for each claim , credit , other policies with the same insurance company . Filling a claim does not automatically increase your rate but filing several claims will .
Make a claim when the recovery is more than a potential increase in subsequent premiums . Basically I advise against making petty claims that come close to the deductible on the policy . Many companies provide substantial discounts for being claims free . Loss of that discount should be computed . Other companies , however , lower the deductible for years without a claim . So you need to have a clear idea of the recovery you anticipate before filing a claim . If it is a liability claim , never hesitate to file the claim .
Let me differentiate between a liability claim and a property claim . If you are sued , notify the claims office of the insurance company immediately . Do not sign any papers and do not make any statements to agents of the individual or company suing you . Never hesitate to submit a liability claim . If your home is uninhabitable because of a covered loss such as fire or lightning call the insurance company claims office immediately . If you are the victim of a disaster , call the claims office immediately . Many insurance companies have mobile claims operations that are dispatched to help victims of disasters . Any damage to your home is a big deal . However , if the damage is not more than two times your deductible , and it pays to know your deductible , call your agent first . Property insurance policies have varying features that can either reduce the deductible or reduce the premium if your policy is claims free . Sometimes a little pencil work will show that it is better to forgo the claim as the reductions you receive for being claims free could be greater than the amount you would recover . If there is water damage and you can not reach your agent quickly enough contact the claims office because water damage only gets worse ! Often a quick responding water mitigation team can reduce and almost eliminate the loss .
There are several factors to consider before making a decision for your senior Medicare needs : Foremost , will you be better off purchasing an insurance supplement , or is a Medicare Advantage plan better for you ? Those two solutions to solving your needs are different animals entirely , so make sure you educate yourself on the different advantages of each and look for only plans in your area . Some plans are county specific . Some supplements are area specific . This is one journey you do not want to take alone . So to help you make an informed decision with your agent , you of your power or attorney need to keep in mind the following items 1 . Are you eligible to change what you have ? 2 . What medications you take . 3 . How often do you go to the doctor ? 4 . How much risk are you willing to accept in return for lower premiums ? All insurance plans transfer some risk from the client to the insurance company . The less risk -LRB- deductibles and copay -RRB- on the client , the more premiums will be . Supplements that have the same letter name -LRB- PLan N , for example -RRB- theoretically cover the same items , so you should be shown what they do and do not cover , and be able to compare costs with other companies . 5 . Are you on assistance ? 6 . Are you under or over 65 ? When did you get part B ? 7 . What state and county do you live in ? 8 . Do you have extensive chronic illnesses ? 9 . Did you recently move , get married , get divorced , move in with family members ? 10 . What is the carriers financial rating and how long have they been in the Medicare Supplement or Medicare Advantage business ? These and other questions are ones I ask before making any recommendations to my clients . If you go to an independent broker who has many Medicare clients , he should have several choices to offer , as there are many companies that compete in this arena . It is n't an easy answer , hopefully the above questions will help you gather a checklist for your agent . If he or she does not ask many of these questions , or only has one solution , you might be better off to move on to a different agent
There are many companies out there and each one of them can treat a claim differently if you are asking will my rate go up . There are different types of claims that can trigger an automatic rate increase on renewal with most companies such as a water Claim -LRB- non flood -RRB- , a theft or a fire . Many companies do not increase premium if the claim is below a certain amount or threshold but you must check with your agent and carrier to be sure . Weather claims in many cases do not trigger increase in premiums but you must check with your agent and company . If you have a weather event and you are not sure if you have damage many roof and siding companies will come out and give you a free bid before you decide to call in the claim . Call your agent and discuss with them thescenarioand get advice so you can make a sound decision . Most companies do not have a problem with a homeowner with 1 claim in 3 years , but if you have more than that you could be considered a habitual claimant -LRB- even though the claims may not have been in your control -RRB- . Find an agent or agency that you can trust and do not be afraid to ask questions that come to mind . Do not find out if you have coverage for a claim after the fact and make sure your questions are answered . Keep in mind that the insurance you are purchasing is to help protect you from a financial loss so ask questions , try to get the best package and coverage that fits your family needs and then look at price .
You can make a claim immediately after a loss occurs . Just make sure that you comply with the conditions in your insurance policy . You will more than likely have to preserve any damaged property ; file a claim with the police if vandalism/mischievous caused the loss ; cooperate with the insurance company . If you just purchased the home owners policy and your concern is whether the loss is covered by the newest coverage , just check the effective dates on your declaration page . If the loss falls between those dates go ahead and make a claim . If not , then make the claim against your previous policy .
The fence is included in most homeowners plans . Since fences can vary widely in cost there is a possibility that the fence would need to be individually valued in the policy . For normal fencing the claim might fall near or below the deductible which would make filing a claim to be futile . If you lose all or part of a fence get an estimate and call you agent before you report the loss to the claims department . The changes in your next years premium for having filed the claim could make it advantageous to forgo making the claim .
end question
start question
medicare-insurance
Can I Unenroll From Medicare ?
You can disenroll from Medicare but consider the downside before doing so . If you disenroll from Medicare Part B and later decide to re-enroll you may have to pay a late enrollment penalty . The LEP is 10 % per year for every year you are not enrolled in Part B . If you disenroll from Part A you may also forfeit your Social Security benefits .
No . Medicare Supplement , also known as Medigap , plans have no enrollment period . However if you are currently enrolled in a Medicare Advantage plan , you will have to wait for one of the times you can unenroll before you can enroll in the Medigap plan . There are some times that are better to enroll in a Medigap plan . When you are both 65 and newly enrolled in Medicare part B , you have a period of time when you can pick any plan regardless of your health conditions . In some states , you 're allowed to change plans during the month of your birthday .
Medicare has two options : 1 . origninal medicare & 2 . Medicare advantage . Original medicare is administered by the same beaurcrats that Obama has used to trash the health care system whereas Medicare Advantage is administered by PRIVATE insurance companies . Medicare Advantage has proven to be the most cost effective system of rendering medicare services because the insurance companies know what is appropriate and what is not appropriate . Medicare on the other hand continues to be riddled with Waste , Fraud , & Abuse-which can be summaraized by spelling P O L I T IC I A N S always looking for an opportunity to buy votes . As a matter of fact one of the L I E S CMS -LRB- Center for Medicare & Medicaid Services -RRB- has put in the Medicare Advantage booklets is `` every Medicare Advantage plan has to be the equivalent of `` original Medicare '' . Really ? I will promise you original medicare covers 80 % of LAB work , especially when it is done for annual physical . Yet , when a particular Medicare Advantage Plan refused to pay my lab charges it was an exercise in futility to get CMS to correct the problem . The Bureaucrats created two classes of sales people when Medicare Advantage was created and adminstered by the wonderful beaucrats - one class that is completely unregulated when they sell Medicare Supplement and the sales person that sells Medicare Advantage is CONTROLLED by the beaurcrats and this last year when I completed the REQUIRED CERTIFICATION it took me 24 hous just to complete the certification . Compare that to the fact I read and took the test and passed the test to sell Obummer Care in less than three hours . Controlling Health Insurance is all about CONTROLLING YOU-THE CONSUMER . Did you realize Medicare is controlled by a UNION IN wASHINGTON D. C . If you want effective health insurance you will identify the members of the unions and you will vote for politicians that will put the unions out of business .
Medicare Advantage is a private form of Medicare run by insurance companies . When you enroll in a Medicare Advantage plan you are no longer participating in original Medicare . Your doctor and other providers file claims with your Advantage insurance carrier , not with Medicare . Your Advantage carrier adjudicates the claim and pays it if approved . Advantage plans are not a supplement to Medicare , they replace Medicare . Amplification . Some people are confused about this since Advantage plans are often referred to as Medicare Part C . When you enroll in an Advantage plan your benefits are provided by an insurance carrier that is a sub-contractor of Medicare . Other than your Medicare Part B premium -LRB- which is still paid to Medicare , or deducted from your Social Security check -RRB- premiums -LRB- if any -RRB- for your benefits are paid to the Advantage carrier . Medicare does not review or adjudicate claims . Medicare does not resolve claim disputes you may have with your Advantage carrier . All of your benefits are covered and provided by your Advantage policy . If you decide to drop your Advantage coverage you have a right to switch to original Medicare . Original Medicare and Medicare Advantage are two separate and distinct systems of providing health insurance . Advantage plans cover the same medical conditions as Medicare -LRB- except Advantage carriers will not issue a policy if you have ESRD -RRB- but the benefits and administration are completely separate . Consider this . Medicare Part D is an insured benefit you purchase from an insurance carrier . The drug plans are not offered direct by Medicare and your claims are handled by the insurance carrier or the PBM that manages the coverage for them . Medicare Part C and D are completely independent from Medicare .
This is an outstanding question ! It goes to the heart of how best to protect your family , and sort through all of the choices out there . It can be scary trying to figure out who has the ` best deal ' and since most people do n't understand a lot about insurance , how not to get taken . I think it is fair to say also that people do n't have a high opinion of insurance to begin with , so agents are n't seemingly much better . So why not just choose a policy from an on-line company or name brand company ? Here 's what I 'd say to you . I have always done business as much by my feel for the person as by their product . If my server does n't care about me or my meal , I do n't go back to the restaurant , or I only order carryout from them . If a bagger at the grocery store just throws my groceries haphazardly into the bags , I 'll look for a different line every time . I want to know that the person I 'm dealing with cares about me , and my business . I also want to know that I have some flexibility - if they 're the only bagger or server , I wo n't go back to those places . An independent agent can offer more options than a name brand office agent would . The name brand can only offer that companies policies , and prices . If their policy is the best one , and I feel the agent truly cares about me and my needs , I 'll buy from them . Chances are though , I 've met with at least one other independent agent -LRB- one not tied to a single brand name - I myself work with several -RRB- to shop prices and coverage before deciding . Again , how they presented themselves to me as they worked for my business was as much a consideration for me as the policy details . If I did n't feel like they cared about anything but the sale , I 'd leave , and thank them for their time . When the time comes that I need help -LRB- and it inevitably does -RRB- I want someone who cares and jumps to help , not someone who has to hunt to figure out who I am . i guess for me , I want a relationship with my business people , -LRB- and my clients -RRB- not just a transaction . I hope that helps you , and I thank you for asking !
Humana Choice PPO would be a Medicare Advantage plan . When you are on Medicare and have a Medicare Advantage plan , coverage falls under the benefits described in your Medicare Advantage plan . It does not get billed to Medicare first and then to the Medicare Advantage plan carrier -LRB- in this case Humana -RRB- or vice versa . It would only be billed through Humana - the carrier pays their portion and you would be responsible for the portion dictacted by the plan benefits -LRB- e.g. you may be responsible for a deductible and then a coinsurance/copayment amount , etc. -RRB- . Medicare Advantage plans are senior health insurance plans that work similarly to the under 65 health plans -LRB- deductibles , copays , coinsurances , max out of pocket expenses , networks , etc. -RRB- . In short , the gov ' t pays the carrier x number of dollars for each enrollee under the plan and the carrier takes the risk of expenses . So when you have a claim , the claim gets processed through the carrier rather than directly to Medicare . Medicare Supplement plans -LRB- also known as Medigap plans -RRB- operate as a supplement -LRB- key work there - supplement -RRB- to original Medicare -LRB- your Part A & Part B coverage -RRB- . When you have Medicare and a Medicare Supplement plan , the physician -LRB- or hospital or other facility -RRB- bills Medicare and then bills the carrier for their portion of charges - depending on which plan letter you have , you may be responsible for a small portion or nothing at all . The idea of a Medicare Supplement plan is to create a predictable expense structure for your healthcare needs rather than taking on a larger portion of risk of expenses on claims . Plus , the Medicare Supplement plan structure allows you to go to any doctor that takes Medicare , meaning no networks and they are not restricted to annual enrollment periods like Medicare Advantage plans are . If you want to take a look at a Medicare Supplement plan to see how it compares , I can help you with that . The Medicare Advantage Disenrollment Period -LRB- MADP -RRB- is from January 1 - February 14 of each year so you have an option to change if you decide to do so . Please note , depending on several factors , you may or may not be subject to medical underwriting for a Medicare Supplement plan -LRB- e.g. whether you are new to Medicare , this is your first time in a Medicare Advantage plan , whether you have a guaranteed-issue right , etc. - I can help determine this -RRB- . My contact information is cited on my agent profile - you can access it by clicking on the `` contact me '' button . I hope the information is helpful - please let me know if you have any other questions I can assist with . Thanks very much .
Video Transcript : Hello , everyone . I 'm Steve Savant , syndicated financial columnist and host of the weekly online talk show `` Steve Savant 's Money : The Name of the Game . '' I 'm answering questions from insurancelibrary.com , and I got this question . It says , `` Is there a limit on how much life insurance I can purchase ? '' Well , let 's say I 'm going to purchase it on myself , and I need to be able to use financial justification . Financial justification simply means that I have to be able to verify and validate the reason I have coverage . And if I have huge income and I have a massive amount of assets and I 'm looking at a future date on which I think I will die based on my life expectancy , then I can go all the way up to those limits . Sooner or later , I 'm going to hit a limit because I will not be able to justify it . So , can you buy it on as much as you want ? The answer is no . You have to always base your thinking on what do I need to cover all my liabilities , my taxes , and transfer issues at death , and when do I think I 'm going to die . Those are the numbers I 'm looking for at whatever inflation rate of return that I use as my reference point . Well , that 's our consumer question for today . If you have any questions , just submit them to www.insurancelibrary.com .
Medicare supplement plans -LRB- commonly referred to as Medigap plans -RRB- are designed to help seniors who want high quality healthcare and are on Medicare , cover the gap between what hospitals and doctors charge for their services and what Medicare will pay . Health insurance is constantly changing , which can make finding the right plan for you very strenuous . Supplementing your Original Medicare coverage -LRB- Medicare Parts A & B -RRB- with a Medicare Supplement plan will help you create a very predictable expense structure for your healthcare and allow you to see any doctor you want that accepts Medicare . Any doctor that accepts Medicare will also accept your Medicare Supplement plan . Original Medicare -LRB- Parts A & B -RRB- covers appoximately 80 % of your healthcare expenses . Medicare supplements -LRB- or commonly referred to as Medigap -RRB- plans help provide coverage for the other 20 % . There are 10 different Medicare supplement plans and they are all standardized , meaning a plan F from company A and a plan F from company B feature the EXACT the same benefits . The 10 different plans available are plans A , B , C , D , F , G , K , L , M , and N. Each plan offers certain benefits some more comprehensive than others . For example , Plan A offers coverage of only the basic benefits of Medicare Supplement Insurance , while Plan F is the most comprehensive . Plan F also offers a high-deductible version of the plan it is the only plan that offers this feature . Under a high-deductible plan F -LRB- also referred to as Hi-F -RRB- , the insured must pay for Medicare-covered costs up to the years deductible amount $ 2,140 in 2014 before the supplement plan pays anything . The benefit of the high-deductible plan F is that it offers the insured a much lower monthly premium . There are 9 benefits available in Medigap plans : 1 -RRB- Medicare Part A coinsurance and hospital costs up to an additional 365 days after Medicare benefits are used up 2 -RRB- Medicare Part B coinsurance or copayment 3 -RRB- First 3 pints of blood 4 -RRB- Part A hospice care coinsurance or copayment 5 -RRB- Skilled nursing facility care coinsurance 6 -RRB- Medicare Part A deductible 7 -RRB- Medicare Part B deductible 8 -RRB- Medicare Part B excess charges 9 -RRB- Foreign travel emergency -LRB- up to limits as cited in the plans -RRB- Each plan provides a percentage of coverage for the first 4 benefits . From there , each plan features some or all of the other 5 benefits . Plan F is the most comprehensive benefit as it covers all 9 benefits at 100 % . Plan G is almost identical as it covers 8 benefits at 100 % -LRB- the one it does n't cover is the Part B deductible . Plan N is also very competitive - as long as your primary care doctor accepts Medicare and assignment , your only other payment other than your premium would be the Part B deductible -LRB- $ 147 in 2014 -RRB- and a copay at the doctor 's office -LRB- up to $ 20 per visit -RRB- or hospital -LRB- up to $ 50 per visit -RRB- . I highly recommend downloading a copy of the Medigap guidebook on the Medicare.gov website - the guidebook is titled `` Choosing a Medigap Policy : A Guide to Health Insurance for People with Medicare . '' Agents will have this on hand as well - it 's required to be given to the proposed insured if they decide to apply for a plan . You can send me a private message if you 'd like me to e-mail it to you . I hope the information is helpful - please feel free to contact me for assistance with your coverage including plan quotes and comparisons . Thanks very much .
Medigap plans -LRB- also known as Medicare supplement plans -RRB- are designed to help seniors who want high quality healthcare and are on Medicare , cover the gap between what hospitals and doctors charge for their services and what Medicare will pay.Health insurance is constantly changing , which can make finding the right plan for you very strenuous . Supplementing your Original Medicare coverage -LRB- Medicare Parts A & B -RRB- with a Medicare Supplement plan will help you create a very predictable expense structure for your healthcare and allow you to see any doctor you want that accepts Medicare . Any doctor that accepts Medicare will also accept your Medicare Supplement plan . There are 10 different Medicare supplement plans and they are all standardized , meaning a plan F from company A and a plan F from company B feature the EXACT the same benefits . The 10 different plans available are plans A , B , C , D , F , G , K , L , M , and N -LRB- a high-deductible plan F is also available that features a $ 2,140 deductible in 2014 -RRB- . Each plan offers certain benefits some more comprehensive than others . Each plan must cover a core set of benefits -LRB- also known as the basic benefits -RRB- . The basic benefits are : 1 -RRB- Medicare Part A coinsurance plus coverage for 365 additional days after Medicare benefits are used up . 2 -RRB- Medicare Part B coinsurance or copayment 3 -RRB- First 3 pints of blood 4 -RRB- Part A hospice care coinsurance or copayment There 's a total of 9 benefits that can be secured . The other 5 benefits are : 1 -RRB- Skilled Nursing Facility Care coinsurance 2 -RRB- Medicare Part A deductible 3 -RRB- Medicare Part B deductible 4 -RRB- Medicare Part B excess charges 5 -RRB- Foreign travel emergency -LRB- up to plan limits -RRB- Each plan features a different structure , Plan F is the most popular plan because it 's the most comprehensive Medigap plan available as it covers all 9 benefits at 100 % . Consult with an experienced broker to review the plans in detail to see which one will best serve your needs . We have an in-depth knowledge of Medigap plans and can provide quotes from multiple carriers . I hope the information is helpful . I have a strong background in senior insurance -LRB- including Medigap plans -RRB- so please feel free to contact me for assistance with your coverage and if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
Medigap plans -LRB- commonly referred to as Medicare supplement plans -RRB- are designed to help seniors who want high quality healthcare and are on Medicare , cover the gap between what hospitals and doctors charge for their services and what Medicare will pay . Health insurance is constantly changing , which can make finding the right plan for you very strenuous . Supplementing your Original Medicare coverage -LRB- Medicare Parts A & B -RRB- with a Medicare Supplement plan will help you create a very predictable expense structure for your healthcare and allow you to see any doctor you want that accepts Medicare . Any doctor that accepts Medicare will also accept your Medicare Supplement plan . There are 10 different Medicare supplement plans and they are all standardized , meaning a plan F from company A and a plan F from company B feature the EXACT the same benefits . The 10 different plans available are plans A , B , C , D , F , G , K , L , M , and N -LRB- a high-deductible plan F is also available that features a $ 2,140 deductible in 2014 -RRB- . Each plan offers certain benefits some more comprehensive than others . Each plan must cover a core set of benefits -LRB- also known as the basic benefits -RRB- . The basic benefits are : 1 -RRB- Medicare Part A coinsurance plus coverage for 365 additional days after Medicare benefits are used up . 2 -RRB- Medicare Part B coinsurance or copayment 3 -RRB- First 3 pints of blood 4 -RRB- Part A hospice care coinsurance or copayment There 's a total of 9 benefits that can be secured . The other 5 benefits are : 1 -RRB- Skilled Nursing Facility Care coinsurance 2 -RRB- Medicare Part A deductible 3 -RRB- Medicare Part B deductible 4 -RRB- Medicare Part B excess charges 5 -RRB- Foreign travel emergency -LRB- up to plan limits -RRB- Each plan features a different structure , Plan F is the most popular plan because it 's the most comprehensive Medigap plan available as it covers all 9 benefits at 100 % . Consult with an experienced broker to review the plans in detail to see which one will best serve your needs . We have an in-depth knowledge of Medigap plans and can provide quotes from multiple carriers . Please let me know if I can be of further assistance . Thanks very much .
Yes , you can change from Medicare Advantage to Medigap . You must first disenroll from your Medicare Advantage Plan and switch back to original Medicare . If you joined a Medicare Advantage plan when you first signed up for Medicare and are changing to Medigap within 12 months , you can choose from any Medigap policy . If you had a Medigap policy , switched to Medicare Advantage , and decided within 12 months to go back to Medigap , you can get your old policy back if it is still available . However , it will no longer have the prescription drug coverage . You may be able to get that from Medicare Part D.
Why do people buy whole life insurance ? Well , I can give you reasons I did . I simply liked what it does . I locked in a life time rate in a policy that grows over time and builds up cash values that I can get to really easily and I do n't have to ask permission from anybody to do so . I like that I own the policy , I control the policy . I like that as an investment it is dull , boring and does it job of a reasonable return at a minimal risk situation . I like after all my health changes -LRB- type II , A Fib -RRB- that I do not have to seek out life insurance again because I have mine , locked in for my life . I like how in 2008 when I lost ten years of growth off my investments and my home value dipped too , that my life insurance kept cooking along as if nothing happened . I like that something I have ca n't go backwards . I figured out a long time ago , whole life insurance is the most risky thing an insurance company can sell for an insurance company , that is why it is priced the way it is . Think about this if you were an insurance company and price based on risk to the company , would the things that could really cost you , do you charge a little or a lot ? This is also why a good disability policy is n't cheap either .
Why buy whole life insurance ? Well I bought whole life for several reasons , maybe they apply to someone else , maybe not . Life insurance is a personal choice . I can only really tell you why I bought it over term . First , I planned on living as long as possible , term does not work if I do that . Then I like that the death benefit increased over time to help battle inflation . I liked that the cash values were mine to do with what ever I like with . I do n't have to ask permission to take money out or put money back , it is mine to decide . I like that the price is locked in . I like that the insurance company can not come back later and increase my costs . I have control . I like that when my health changed and I became uninsurable that I had policies I controlled that they could n't price me out of or change the terms of . They were mine , purchased when my health was excellent . Twenty years later , when my health went south , the policies did n't . I like that my cash values did n't count against my kids FASFA contribution count . I really like that in 2008 when my real estate , market investments all took a big dump on my portfolio , my whole life did n't go backwards in value . In fact that year it was my most profitable portfolio item . I like going to sleep at night knowing my policies will be there for my family if I do not awake , but I really like that these policies will not let me down or be subject to the extreme market ups and downs that the rest of my portfolio is . This is just a few things I can mention . There are many many more but hey it comes down to what you actually want to happen , not what somebody else tells you what you should want . If it does n't fit what you want , do n't buy it .
In a way , yes . What 's actually occurring is you 're leaving Medicare Advantage to go back to Original Medicare -LRB- Parts A & B -RRB- and adding a Medigap plan to that to cover the 20 % of expenses that Original Medicare does not . During the annual enrollment period -LRB- AEP - October 15-December 7 -RRB- , you would apply for a Medigap plan noting to the carrier your intent to disenroll from the Medicare Advantage plan -LRB- you ca n't have both unfortunately -RRB- . The effective date for the coverage would be set up as January 1 of the following year because your Medicare Advantage plan is set up as a one-year contract providing coverage from January 1-December 31 for the year you enrolled for . If it 's your first year in a Medicare Advantage plan and you want to go back to Original Medicare , you will have a guaranteed-issue right -LRB- via a `` trial right '' when it 's your first time in an MA plan -RRB- to secure any Medigap plan and can not be declined for any medical reasons . Another `` guaranteed-issue '' / `` trial right '' situation is if you dropped a Medigap plan to go to Medicare Advantage -LRB- for the first time and you 've been in the plan for less than one year -RRB- and want to go back to Medigap , you can secure the Medigap policy you had before you joined the Medicare Advantage Plan , if the same insurance company you had before still offers it . If your prior carrier your former Medigap policy was through no longer offers that same plan , you can buy either a plan A , B , C , F , K , or L from any insurance company offering coverage in your area . For either `` trial right '' scenarios , it can be done at any point during the year -LRB- not just during AEP -RRB- as early as 60 days before the date your Medicare Advantage coverage will terminate and no later than 63 days after it ends . It 's best to speak with an independent broker who can shop the case for you among many carriers to make sure you 're getting the desired Medigap plan at the lowest possible cost since they 're standardized -LRB- the coverage is the same for a given Medigap plan regardless of who it 's through - the only difference being price -RRB- . Captive agents can only offer plans from the carrier work they work for . I hope the information is helpful - please feel free to contact me for help with your Medicare insurance coverage , including plan quotes and comparisons for Medigap plans , and if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
The answer to your question has many parts to the final answer . Let 's assume I just got married and my phone has been ringing incessantly with insurance agents pedaling their life insurance policies . My wife and I know it just makes good sense to have life insurance-my policy covering her and vice versa . The question is given my occupation and I do not want her to work how do I plan `` how much '' life insurance ? My employer can provide $ 50,000 for me and I am not taxed as long as I stay at or below $ 50,000 . So from a cost standpoint that $ 50,000 is a given . I hope to have two children to keep my wife happy and raising kids . We know it takes a huge amount to just raise the kids much less educate them . We also know if I am smart at some point in my life I will be smart to have saved enough money to get out of the life insurance market and have savings to pay any funeral costs that may arise . So on today 's date I know my `` insurance needs '' is at the highest point it will ever be assuming the two children are born and then we can avoid the `` steamy ` Saturday and be careless and now the third is here . So if I assume the first child will be born in two years that means in year 20 I have to have `` college expense '' funds '' . Is it a better investment to use life insurance or it better to open a mutual fund aggressive growth and invest a $ 100 pewr month for the next 20 years ? Let 's assume the second child in born in our fourth year of marriage . Now the same decision outlined above is with me again . What is often overlooked is the assumption is I will remain healthy and my income will increase each year . What happens if I become ill and diabled for two years ? What disablity insurance plans do I have ? Do they cover my `` own occupation '' or if I can flip hamburgers I am not considered disabled . In order to make an informed decisions you have to consider all the options . Is it best for me to take a Gerber Life insurance policy on each child for $ 20,000 , which then doubles , at their age 18 ? If I am confident that I can save sufficiently for the next 30 years I may decide to take a $ 1,000,000 30 year term policy but if I am not confident of my ability to save then I am sure going to use the `` dollar cost averging '' advantages of having a `` cash value '' policy and a mutual fund in the aggressive growth and invest $ 100 per month . I ho ; pe this helps you to see the complexity of your question .
For most people , you can get Medicare Part B when you turn age 65 . You can sign up for Medicare Part B by going to your local Social Security office or you can do it online at www.SSA.gov . It is also best to consider what type of Medicare Supplement you will need . You can review plans several months prior to getting your Medicare Part B and you can submit the application ahead of time . By doing this you can then have your Medicare Supplement have the same effective date as the Medicare Part B. Medicare Part A & B only covers about 80 % of the costs so people get a supplement to cover the difference . Medicare along with a supplement -LRB- Medigap -RRB- is great health insurance . You can go to our website for more information about Medicare Part B and Medicare Supplement information .
Video Transcript : Hello everyone , I 'm Steve Savant , syndicated financial columnist and host of the weekly online talk show Steve Savant 's Money : The Name of The Game . I 'm answering questions from insurancelibrary.com and today 's question is : is a non qualified plan better than a qualified plan ? Well , there 's two issues why you should be using a qualified plan , like an example , 401K . You 're in a high tax bracket or your employer actually is matching your contribution in some way which I think is a great way to go . If I have a high tax bracket and my employer is doing a match and I have both of those , I think that 's a really good play . Qualified plans are the way to go . I get the deduction and my employer is actually contributing . But if I do n't have either one of those two , then really the deduction does me no good . I like the life insurance idea because I do n't have the same ERISA issues like 59 and a half and I have penalty if I took out my money . So I like the life insurance side of that issue from a non qualified point of view because it accumulates tax deferred and if it 's set up correctly , it could come out tax free . Well , that 's our consumer question for today . If you have any question , just submit them to www.insurancelibrary.com .
ObamaCare currently has no impact on Medigap policies that would be obvious to the senior consumer as being directly attributable to ObamaCare . It does n't phase them out or end them and they are n't subject to the more direct attacks this administration has made on Medicare Advantage plans . The effects of ObamaCare on the Medicare population will be more subtle . Even before ObamaCare was passed , Medicare reimbursement rates were at levels where growing numbers of physicians were making business decisions to limit the number of Medicare patients they would take in their practice , freeze their number of Medicare patients at current levels , or stopping accepting Medicare patients entirely . While going through all the legislative and budgetary gyrations that resulted in the passage of ObamaCare in 2010 the administration deemed it critical that the projected 10-year cost projections of the law come in under 1 trillion dollars . Why ? Because that was approximately what we had spent on the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan and the argument was that if we could afford to spend that much on wars then surely we could afford to spend that much on providing health insurance . An important aspect of how this was accomplished from a budgetary perspective was that the law transfers future funds from the Medicare trust funds to pay for various aspects of ObamaCare . It was projected that these transfers would reduce the future increases in spending on Medicare over the coming decade by about $ 700 billion . In Washington speak this means that we 'll still be spending more on Medicare -LRB- which with our growing Medicare population is only logical -RRB- but we 'll be reducing reimbursement levels to doctors , hospitals , etc. , by $ 700 billion less than would have otherwise been the case . From studies I have seen , this will begin taking Medicare reimbursement levels below those of Medicaid in the not too distant future . So , if many healthcare providers were barely breaking even or losing money on Medicare patients at the old reimbursement levels it does n't take much imagination to guess what their reaction will be to even lower reimbursement levels in the years to come . So , the main challenge many senior citizens on Medicare will be faced with in coming years that is severely aggravated by ObamaCare will be finding healthcare providers who are willing to accept them .
Medicare is a federal-government run program so the type of coverage available under Medicare Parts A & B -LRB- also known as Original Medicare -RRB- will be the same regardless of the state you live in . The calculation of premiums for Original Medicare is the same everywhere as well - your income level can increase your Part B monthly premium though as it 's based on income level brackets . Medicare Part A is your hospital insurance . It provides benefits for your inpatient hospital stay , skilled nursing facility care , nursing home care , hospice care , and certain home health services . The benefit that is the most common claim is for hospital stays . During a hospital stay , your Part A will cover certain hospital services and supplies including semi-private rooms , meals , general nursing , and medications given during your stay . Acceptable hospital stays can include critical access hospitals , inpatient rehab facilities , LTC hospitals , acute care hospitals , and mental health care - you may want to confirm with Medicare whether a certain inpatient stay would be covered by a facility that is not a traditional hospital . Medicare Part B is your physician insurance . It covers doctor visits , tests , surgeries , preventive services , and supplies including DMEs -LRB- durable medical equipment -RRB- . The Part B deductible is $ 147 in 2014 . You 're responsible for about 20 % of healthcare expenses covered by Part B - Medicare only covers approximately 80 % of the costs . There is a guidebook called `` Medicare & You '' that provides a lot of information regarding Medicare coverage - the guidebook is updated each year with any new changes to coverage - you can get a copy of this from the medicare.gov website as well as look up additional information . I always recommend those on Medicare buy a Medigap plan to supplement their Part A & Part B coverage . Your Part A & Part B only covers about 80 % of expenses . A Medigap plan can cover all or a portion of the other 20 % of the expenses . The big advantage of having a Medigap plan is that it creates a very predictable healthcare expense structure . Medigap plans are also standardized , meaning the plan benefits are the same regardless of which company you purchase it from . The premiums for these programs can vary from company to company . I hope the information is helpful - please feel free to contact me for help and if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
Medigap plans -LRB- commonly referred to as Medicare supplement plans -RRB- are designed to help seniors who want high quality healthcare and are on Medicare , cover the gap between what hospitals and doctors charge for their services and what Medicare will pay . Health insurance is constantly changing , which can make finding the right plan for you very strenuous . Supplementing your Original Medicare coverage -LRB- Medicare Parts A & B -RRB- with a Medicare Supplement plan will help you create a very predictable expense structure for your healthcare and allow you to see any doctor you want that accepts Medicare . Any doctor that accepts Medicare will also accept your Medicare Supplement plan . There are 10 different Medicare supplement plans and they are all standardized , meaning a plan F from company A and a plan F from company B feature the EXACT same benefits . The 10 different plans available are plans A , B , C , D , F , G , K , L , M , and N -LRB- a high-deductible plan F is also available that features a $ 2,140 deductible in 2014 - the trade-off being a substantially reduced premium -RRB- . Each plan offers certain benefits some more comprehensive than others . Each plan must cover a core set of benefits -LRB- also known as the basic benefits -RRB- . The basic benefits are : 1 -RRB- Medicare Part A coinsurance plus coverage for 365 additional days after Medicare benefits are used up . 2 -RRB- Medicare Part B coinsurance or copayment 3 -RRB- First 3 pints of blood 4 -RRB- Part A hospice care coinsurance or copayment There 's a total of 9 benefits that can be secured . The other 5 benefits available under a Medigap plan are : 1 -RRB- Skilled Nursing Facility Care coinsurance 2 -RRB- Medicare Part A deductible 3 -RRB- Medicare Part B deductible 4 -RRB- Medicare Part B excess charges 5 -RRB- Foreign travel emergency -LRB- up to plan limits -RRB- Each plan features a different structure , Each plan covers a different combination of these 9 benefits -LRB- some of the plans feature coinsurance or copayments for certain benefits -RRB- . If cost is not a major factor for you , Plan F will be the recommended choice because it covers all 9 benefits at 100 % - it 's the most popular plan by far . If you 're looking to keep your costs down , but still have very comprehensive coverage , you may want to look at plans C , G , and N as well . Consult with an experienced broker to review the plans in detail to see which one will best serve your needs . We have an in-depth knowledge of Medigap plans , provide quotes from multiple carriers , and help you determine the one that 's going to be most suitable to your needs and budget . Please feel free to contact me for help or if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
end question
start question
auto-insurance
What Is The Penalty For Not Having Car Insurance In California ?
If you get pulled over and fail to show proof of insurance when it is requested , you can be fined up to $ 800 . If you get into an accident and do not have insurance , you can have your license suspended , your car impounded and be fined . Be sure to obey the law and get insurance or some other form of Evidence of Financial Responsibility .
The fine in California for not having auto insurance is $ 796.00 . However I have seen cases where the judge has increased the fine up to $ 1500.00 depending on if you are a repeat offender . Also you license can be suspended for not having insurance . If you get into an accident with no insurance your license WILL BE SUSPENDED for up to one year for not having insurance and your car most likely will be impounded . Not only that . If you are at - fault in an accident with no insurance I hope you can afford an attorney . Not having auto insurance in California is taken very seriously .
When you filed your federal tax return for 2014 -- sometime before April 15 , 2014 -- you may have realized for the first time that failure to have purchased health insurance in 2014 subjected you to a special tax penalty , known to tax lawyers as a `` shared responsibility payment . '' Last year , 2014 , was the first year for which tax penalties were assessed for failure to obtain health insurance . You will be assessed a similar penalty for the present tax year , 2015 , unless you purchase insurance for this year . Normally , you would be required to purchase insurance by February 15 - the end of the open enrollment period for the year . However , if you can claim that you were not aware of the tax penalties until recently , applicable regulations extend that deadline and allow you to purchase insurance up to April 30 , 2015 . The tax penalties for not obtaining health insurance are significant , and they are going up in 2015 . For example , a single person with income of $ 40,000 , paid a penalty of about $ 300 in 2014 , but in 2015 the penalty would be about $ 600 . A married couple with two children and joint income of $ 70,000 , paid a penalty of about $ 500 in 2014 , but in 2015 the penalty would be almost $ 1,000 . You can take advantage of this special extended enrollment opportunity through Covered California , the health insurance marketplace established by the State of California under the Affordable Care Act to make it easier for Californians to shop for , compare and purchase private health insurance . Depending upon your income , you may qualify for subsidies that will reduce the cost of health insurance to you and your family . You have a number of insurance options available to you through Covered California . In general , you can purchase a bronze , silver , gold or platinum policy -- the bronze policies have lower co-pays and premiums , but also offer more limited coverage and higher deductibles . Platinum policies are more expensive and offer greater coverage . Silver and gold policies fall between . Depending upon where you live , you can purchase policies from the following private insurers on the Covered California marketplace : Anthem , Blue Shield , Chinese Community Health Plan , Health Net , Kaiser Permanente , LA Care , Molina Healthcare , Sharp Health Plan , Valley Health and Western Health Advantage . If you do not wish to purchase insurance through Covered California , you may still take advantage of the extended enrollment period through April 30 . Private insurers have been authorized to extend enrollment to April 30 -LRB- from the normal cut-off of February 15 -RRB- to those Californians who had not been aware of the tax penalties for failure to purchase insurance . Insurers are not obligated to extend the standard enrollment period , but a number of them have , including Kaiser Permanente , Anthem , and Blue Shield . However , please note that if you qualify for subsidized health coverage , the subsidies are only available if you purchase your health policy on the Covered California market . Two additional quick notes : If you qualify for Medi-Cal , you may apply at any time . You are not subject to the April 30 - or any other -- application deadline . And if you are the subject of certain major changes in your life -LRB- for example , loss of health coverage through your employment , marriage , move to California -RRB- , you may enroll in an insurance program after such event . However , in all other circumstances , if you want to avoid paying a tax penalty when you file your taxes next year , take advantage of this special enrollment extension and purchase an eligible health insurance policy by April 30 , 2015 .
The minimum insurance requirement in California is called the financial responsibility requirement . All drivers in California are required to carry evidence that the car that they are operating is insured to these set standards . The standards are $ 15,000 per person of bodily injury liability coverage , and $ 30,000 of bodily injury liability coverage for death to more than one person . There must be % 5,000 of property damage liability insurance in place . Insurance isnt mandatory . There can be a cash deposit with the DMV of $ 35,000 , or a certificate of self-insurance issued by the Department of Motor Vehicles of the State of California , or a surety bond for $ 35,000 issued by a company authorized to do business in California . Insurance is the choice of most vehicle owners . The companies that insure cars in California are required to report the status of the policies of insurance electronically to the DMV . If you decide to no longer operate the automobile and it is not parked on a California highway or street , you must notify the DMV that you are suspending coverage , and why . The minimum coverage law allows you to purchase the most expensive auto insurance policy available . While it may be adequate in many circumstances , in those circumstances where the damages sustained exceed the limits of the policy the vehicle owner will discover that all of their assets are in jeopardy and there will not be anything to help the owner , except bankruptcy .
If you operate a vehicle in the state of California the vehicle must be insured . You are not required to be the owner of the vehicle because in California insurance follows the vehicle . So in other words if a friend loaned you his or her car that fried is responsible for the insurance on the vehicle . If you did carry your own insurance your insurance would become secondary to the primary vehicles insurance . However , at the end of the day the vehicle must be insured to be operated on the road or you may be subject to stiff penalties . On a side note not all vehicle insurance has permissive driver use . I recommend you always consult with your insurance company to find out what exclusions may apply .
Insurance is regulated by state . Each state can adopt a different approach to the issue that you have raised . In California , the voters took rating matters into their own hands with a constitutional amendment . Sex or gender , as you say , is not a rating factor in California . That means that in California if you switch sex , switch back and switch again , nothing will change as long as you are residing in California , and driving a car insured in California .
All auto insurers in California are subject to prop 103 laws and guidelines . This means a DUI is chargeable for 3 years , however the person in question with the DUI will not be a California good driver for 10 years . California good driver is a 20 % discount that would not be available by any Insurer operating in California . Not being a good driver in California can potentially make you unacceptable by certain carriers that will only accept California good drivers . Work with many Insurers including Allied and depending on your situation Allied most likely will accept you as an insured but you will not get the good driver discount .
How can I minimize the amount I pay for auto insurance ? There are two sides to the insurance premium question . The first side is the dollars going to the insurance company . The other side is the dollars coming from the insurance company when you have a claim . The most expensive insurance policy is one that does not adequately protect you when you have a claim . If you have low liability limits and do several hundred thousand s of dollars in damage you might find your assets and income making up the difference when you have a claim and that could be devastating . When you look at the premium for a recent model car you will discover that the pricing is fairly evenly split between liability coverage and physical damage coverage . In a very general way this means that in an accident you can expect your car to receive as much damage as the other car . Different cars have different repair costs . These costs are determined by taking the results of actual claims and tracking the costs . Some cars have technology that makes them expensive to repair . Others have design features that make them expensive to repair . The safety features on some cars reduce the cost of repair . A client was making a search for a car based upon the total cost of operation . It was very interesting as we compared different makes and models . We were using the same approximate year so the comparison was just on the manufacturer and the different models being considered . The prices varied more than I would have anticipated . It seemed that the more curb appeal the car had , the more likely it was to be a repair shop nightmare . As a car ages its potential repair costs start to come close to its actual cash value . While the price for the physical damage insurance also starts to reduce there might well be a time when you consider the potential loss of your car to be negligible and then you should remove physical damage coverage . I have been startled by people who maintain physical damage on cars approaching 20 years of service . There is a sentimental attachment that is extremely important . Liability premiums also vary somewhat with the horsepower and weight of the vehicle . Sporty , high powered cars can do a lot of damage and statistically are more frequently involved in accidents than low powered plain models . I am often asked about whether or not a specific model is being treated as a sports car . The customer wants to argue the merits of the car . The fact is that the car has been rated on its own claims history and the rate is determined , not by logic , but by experience . It helps to understand the rating system for liability insurance . The year make and model are the starting point as some vehicles are more frequently involved in accidents than others . The second is the driving record and claims history of the principle operator and other drivers in the household . The companies weigh these driving records quite closely . The third factor , in California , is the number of miles the vehicle is used . Obviously every mile has a component of risk exposure so a vehicle being used 40,000 miles a year has a greater exposure to claim than one only being operated 400 miles a year . The next factor is where you live . Rural areas have fewer accidents than urban and some urban areas are worse than others . These factors are considered in determining a rate . Dont forget that the most expensive insurance is the policy that doesnt meet your needs when you have a claim .
Actually California has some of the most competitive auto rates in the country due to Prop 103 . While everything else in California is expensive my clients are often pleasantly surprised that the auto insurance rates in California are not sky high . In California we have a different set of rules governed by the Prop 103 law that heavily regulates the rates in California and what an insurance carrier can charge . Insurance rates are not credit based but are heavily rated on your driving record and driving history .
I presume you are asking about the individual mandate requirement of the Affordable Care Act -LRB- ObamaCare -RRB- and the tax penalty associated with not having health insurance or health insurance that meets the requirements of the Affordable Care Act . The term `` levy '' is technically inaccurate as that is an assessment applied to a population in general . Persons without health insurance in 2014 will be subject to a tax penalty when they file their 2014 tax returns in 2015 . The penalty for being uninsured in 2014 will be $ 95 per adult and $ 47.50 per child -LRB- up to $ 285 per household -RRB- or 1 % of their Modified Adjusted Gross Income -LRB- MAGI -RRB- , whichever is greater . The tax penalty for being uninsured in 2015 will increase to $ 325 per adult and $ 162.50 per child -LRB- up to $ 975 per household -RRB- or 2 % of their MAGI , whichever is greater . If you persist in being uninsured in 2016 the tax penalty jumps to $ 695 per adult and $ 347.50 per child -LRB- up to $ 2085 per household -RRB- or 2.5 % of MAGI , whichever is greater . In subsequent years the tax penalty will be adjusted upward by the inflation rate . As the law is currently constructed , the tax penalties described above can only be collected by the IRS from any income tax refund that the taxpayer would have received . The IRS can not bill the taxpayer for the penalty , place a lien on their assets or criminally prosecute the taxpayer . Obviously , this means that an uninsured person 's tax penalty on paper and what their true penalty -LRB- if any -RRB- might be will be directly related to whether they are eligible for a tax refund . So , a person 's ability to structure their tax withholding during the course of the year , or in the case of self-employed persons making estimated tax payments , so that they have little or no refund or owe additional taxes when filing their tax return may largely negate or eliminate the tax penalty for being uninsured .
The penalty for driving under the influence of alcohol comes in four ways generally . There is almost always a judicial penalty which may include a suspension and a filing of an SR-21 form . This can be very costly . Frequently there is remedial drivers training , which is an additional expense . Sometimes community service is required which takes time away from work . Then there is insurance . Most companies really dont want drivers with a DUI on their record and they price accordingly . You can anticipate at least a 50 % increase in premium , but in California you also lose a good drivers discount of 20 % , so the cumulative result often leads to an increase of almost 100 % .
Everyone will have to have health insurance that meets the standards set under the affordable care act or pay a penalty -LRB- also known as an `` individual shared responsibility payment '' -RRB- . If you choose to pay the penalty instead of securing coverage , you will still be responsible for 100 % of your medical care . The penalty is calculated in one of 2 ways -LRB- you pay whichever is the higher amount -RRB- . In 2014 , the penalties will be calculated as : 1 -RRB- 1 % of your yearly household income featuring a maximum penalty as the national average yearly premium for a bronze plan . 2 -RRB- $ 95 per person for the year -LRB- If under age 18 , then $ 47.50 -RRB- featuring a maximum penalty per family of $ 285 under this method . Its important to note that the penalty will change each year . In 2015 , method one increases to 2 % of your yearly household income and method two increases to $ 325 per person . In 2016 , it will increase again to 2.5 % for method one and $ 695 per person for method two . The penalty methods will be adjusted for inflation in later years . To avoid the penalty , you need to have health insurance that qualifies as minimum essential coverage . I hope the information is helpful - please feel free to contact me for help with your coverage or if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
Under the Affordable Care Act , everyone will have to have health insurance or pay a penalty -LRB- also known as an `` individual shared responsibility payment '' -RRB- . If you choose to pay the penalty instead of securing coverage , you will still be responsible for 100 % of your medical care . The penalty is calculated in one of 2 ways -LRB- you pay whichever is the higher amount -RRB- . In 2014 , the penalties will be calculated as : 1 -RRB- 1 % of your yearly household income featuring a maximum penalty as the national average yearly premium for a bronze plan . 2 -RRB- $ 95 per person for the year -LRB- If under age 18 , then $ 47.50 -RRB- featuring a maximum penalty per family of $ 285 under this method . Its important to note that the penalty will change each year . In 2015 , method one increases to 2 % of your yearly household income and method two increases to $ 325 per person . In 2016 , it will increase again to 2.5 % for method one and $ 695 per person for method two . The penalty methods will be adjusted for inflation in later years . To avoid the penalty , you need to have health insurance that qualifies as minimum essential coverage . Please feel free to contact me for help or if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
The color of your car is not a consideration when purchasing auto insurance . There is an urban legend that states that red cars are more accident prone . At least in California that isnt a consideration . The rating factors in California are year , make and model of the car , the driving record of all those in the household , the average annual mileage and the location .
In California there doesnt seem to be any restriction on Cat C cars . A Cat C car must pass testing by the Department of Motor Vehicles . If it is a reliable vehicle , there shouldnt be any concerns about insuring the car . Insurance companies are reluctant to write physical damage coverages , but as far as I can tell they can not refuse to do so in California .
You 're not going to go to jail for not having health insurance . If you do n't have health coverage that meets the minimum essential coverage requirements , you would be subject to paying a penalty -LRB- also known as an `` individual shared responsibility payment '' -RRB- . If you choose to pay the penalty instead of securing coverage , you will still be responsible for 100 % of your medical care . The penalty is calculated in one of 2 ways -LRB- you pay whichever is the higher amount -RRB- . In 2014 , the penalties will be calculated as : 1 -RRB- 1 % of your yearly household income featuring a maximum penalty as the national average yearly premium for a bronze plan . 2 -RRB- $ 95 per person for the year -LRB- If under age 18 , then $ 47.50 -RRB- featuring a maximum penalty per family of $ 285 under this method . Its important to note that the penalty will change each year . In 2015 , method one increases to 2 % of your yearly household income and method two increases to $ 325 per person . In 2016 , it will increase again to 2.5 % for method one and $ 695 per person for method two . The penalty methods will be adjusted for inflation in later years . To avoid the penalty , you need to have health insurance that qualifies as minimum essential coverage .
Under the Affordable Care Act , everyone will have to have health insurance or pay a penalty -LRB- also known as an `` individual shared responsibility payment '' -RRB- . If you choose to pay the penalty instead of securing coverage , you will still be responsible for 100 % of your medical care . The penalty is calculated in one of 2 ways -LRB- you pay whichever is the higher amount -RRB- . In 2014 , the penalties will be calculated as : 1 -RRB- 1 % of your yearly household income featuring a maximum penalty as the national average yearly premium for a bronze plan . 2 -RRB- $ 95 per person for the year -LRB- If under age 18 , then $ 47.50 -RRB- featuring a maximum penalty per family of $ 285 under this method . Its important to note that the penalty will change each year . In 2015 , method one increases to 2 % of your yearly household income and method two increases to $ 325 per person . In 2016 , it will increase again to 2.5 % for method one and $ 695 per person for method two . The penalty methods will be adjusted for inflation in later years . To avoid the penalty , you need to have health insurance that qualifies as minimum essential coverage . Please feel free to contact me for help . Thanks very much .
Every year , make and model of automobile is assigned a specific symbol . The symbols are alphabetical . The symbol tracks the experience the industry and the company have with that particular year , make and model . As you can imagine a manufacturer like Mercedes Benz has a wide variety of symbols . The symbol is but a part of the computation of the premium . The insurance companies in California are restricted to a few criteria to further evaluate the risk . The California insurers will look at the driving record of every driver in the household and will assess points if there are violations present , particularly with the assigned driver . The points based upon a drivers record have a compounding effect because in California a driver with less than two points is considered a good driver and awarded a substantial discount . Another factor that influences the company is the presence of inexperienced drivers . The accident record of the household is also considered closely . Claims for bodily injury receive a great deal of scrutiny . Most points given for accidents or violations remain on the driving record for three years . Racing and DUI convictions remain on the record for ten years . In California the distance you driver your Mercedes Benz each year is also a part of the computation . Services are available to insurance companies that track your mileage every time the vehicle is serviced . These services project you annual mileage and companies use bands of factors to develop the final premium . There are a few additional factors considered such as location where the car is being garaged , and occupation of the drivers in the household , Most automobile insurance is rated by a computer with little additional input from a live underwriter or agent . All of this information is used to compile a premium that the insurance company considers adequate for the risk . If approved by the computer , the agent is authorized to issue the policy and subject to potential additional review , the policy is in force .
The California Department of Insurance -LRB- aka the California Insurance Commissioner 's Office -RRB- . If you are having problems with an insurer you can contact the department at 800-927-4357 if you are within the state of California or 213-897-8921 if you are outside of the state of California . You can also use their contact form , which can be found here : WEBSITELINK
Car insurance rates are rarely a moral issue . If guys have worse driving records than young women , the company can ask many states to allow them to rate them separately . In California , that isnt an option . There are only a few rating factors in California and sex isnt one of them . That doesnt make insurance cheaper , it merely means that there isnt a distinction between male and female drivers in California .
end question
start question
home-insurance
What Does Homeowners Insurance Cost In Massachusetts ?
Boy , there should be quite a few different answers to this question . However , in the spirit of trying to answer any rational insurance question with a rational response , Ill do my best . Price is an important consideration but so arent the reasons you are considering the purchase of insurance in the first place . Is it to repair and REPLACE any damage to your home or other personal property you own ? Is it to cover the additional cost of living in temporary quarters should your home be damaged or destroyed ? Is it to provide defense and payment should you be found responsible for injuring someone or damaging their property ? Depending on the age , location , and condition of your home as well as the cost to build or rebuild it , a reasonable approximation would be $ 2-3 per thousand per year . If it is any more or less than that , you may want to take a harder look at it .
At the time of this writing , the state of Massachusetts does not offer temporary Disability Insurance to residents without Disability Insurance . In addition , Massachusetts state laws do not require businesses to offer temporary Disability Insurance or to enforce mandatory sick time . So if you live in the state of Massachusetts you still may receive short term and/or long term disability coverage as a job benefit . But if you do not , it might be essential to purchase a private DI policy in order to get this type of protection .
The main difference between Massachusetts and other states is in the Medicare Supplements . While most other states have ten or eleven options for supplements , Massachusetts has only two . The core supplement covers Medicare Part A and B coinsurance after you meet the yearly deductible and supplement 1 covers the deductible as well .
To find the best life insurance policy in Massachusetts , you can first go to a website that offers multiple quotes to see which has your best price . Pick the top 5 or so and look at the AM Best ratings for each company . Getting a reasonably priced policy with a company rated over A should be a good choice . There is no one best life insurance company in Massachusetts , but you can get the best option for you .
That is an excellent question , and I am glad that you asked it ! With all of the misinformation that has been spread about the Affordable Care Act -LRB- Obamacare -RRB- it has been difficult to figure out what is true , and what is n't . As you know , the Act mandated health care for everyone . The reason for this was two fold . The first reason is that for many people , the only reason that they bought it was because they were unhealthy , and were afraid that their health would at some point require expensive treatments . -LRB- which statistically , it did -RRB- . This raised the overall costs of insurance for everyone . By mandating the insurance , The pool of applicants now included all of the `` healthy people '' as well , which theoretically , and statistically lowers the per-person cost of insurance . The other reason was that people who could afford insurance but did n't buy it were receiving medical treatment anyway . Who do you think was paying for that treatment ? Yup , we were . Now some of that cost shifts back to the individual where it belongs , and not to the general public . That also should theoretically lower all of our treatment costs , as the medical practitioners are getting paid for their services . Personal freedom arguments aside , financially it is a good idea , and it has worked well in Massachusetts since Mr. Romneyinstituted the plan there . Thanks for asking !
Long Term Care Insurance in Massachusetts can come from many different companies , and most of the companies that have survived the recent price adjustments are very good . The one that is best for one person , however , may not be best for another . There are some companies that have better pricing for couples , some that offer certain features at a better price than another , etc. . To find who has the best long term care insurance for you , contact a broker who sells long term care insurance in Massachusetts . That way you can see your top three companies and then choose the one that has your best price , the highest rating , or a blend between the two , if those two factors do not coincide .
Medicare is a federal government run program - the benefits provided under Medicare Parts A & B are the same in each state . If a doctor accepts assignment , they are accepting the Medicare approved amount as payment in full and will not bill the insured an excess charge . When a doctor does not accept assignment , they reserve the right to charge an amount above and beyond the Medicare approved amount , up to 15 % . For example , if you have a service done that Medicare says costs $ 200 and the doctor accepts Medicare , but not assignment , they can charge the insured up to an additional $ 30 for the service . A Medicare supplement plan is a great way to cover excess charges . If your primary care physician accepts Medicare , but does not accept assignment , you may want to secure a Medigap plan F . If they do accept assignment , a plan N may be more suitable to your needs . Plans F & G will cover excess charges - the other Medicare supplement plans will not . The states that do not allow excess charges -LRB- due to the Medicare Overcharge Measure Law -RRB- are Connecticut , Massachusetts , Minnesota , New York , Ohio , Pennsylvania , Rhode Island and Vermont . However , this is only a critical item if you have a Medicare Supplement plan that does not cover Part B excess charges . If you have a plan F or plan G , then it wont really matter because the plan would pay the excess charges regardless . I hope the information is helpful - please feel free to contact me for help with your Medicare Supplement programs , including quotes and plan comparisons , and if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
Medicare is a federal government run program - the benefits provided under Medicare Parts A & B are the same in each state . If a doctor accepts assignment , they are accepting the Medicare approved amount as payment in full and will not bill the insured an excess charge . When a doctor does not accept assignment , they reserve the right to charge an amount above and beyond the Medicare approved amount , up to 15 % . For example , if you have a service done that Medicare says costs $ 200 and the doctor accepts Medicare , but not assignment , they can charge the insured up to an additional $ 30 for the service . A Medicare supplement plan is a great way to cover excess charges . If your primary care physician accepts Medicare , but does not accept assignment , you may want to secure a Medigap plan F . If they do accept assignment , a plan N may be more suitable to your needs . Plans F & G will cover excess charges - the other Medicare supplement plans will not . The states that do not allow excess charges -LRB- due to the Medicare Overcharge Measure Law -RRB- are Connecticut , Massachusetts , Minnesota , New York , Ohio , Pennsylvania , Rhode Island and Vermont . However , this is only a critical item if you have a Medicare Supplement plan that does not cover Part B excess charges . If you have a plan F or plan G , then it wont really matter because the plan would pay the excess charges regardless . I hope the information is helpful - please feel free to contact me for help with your coverage and if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
Medicare covers the same basic health care in Massachusetts as in the rest of the country . Part A covers hospitalization , home health , hospice , and some nursing home care . Part B covers outpatient care , medical equipment , some therapy , some prescription drugs , and misc other services and items . Medicare Part D covers prescription drugs . Medicare supplement plans cover some of what Medicare Part A and B does not .
Massachusetts does not require you to obtain `` Renters '' insurance as it does auto insurance but your landlord or just good judgment may suggest this coverage be considered . Renters or Tenant/homeowners coverage provides coverage in three principal areas ; Damage to your personal property -LRB- clothing , furniture and/or household items -RRB- , Additional expenses to live in temporary quarters should your apartment or building be damaged or destroyed by a fire , wind or other covered cause , Personal liability coverage should certain acts cause injury or damage to someone , possibly your neighbors or even the building you occupy . Anyone responsible for maintaining a household should at least consider securing this type of coverage . It beats digging into your savings after a storm or fire or waiting for the Red Cross to give you a shirt , a bed and a hot meal . The cost for a basic policy would be in the $ 150-200 per year range . It certainly would be considered as important as maintaining comprehensive and collision insurance on a used car . In fact , simply increasing your deductibles on your car insurance may reduce your premiums enough to permit you to secure a basic policy .
Im not sure what you mean by best auto insurance but I assume you may mean the least expensive and certainly in Massachusetts there are now a number of choices . I wouldnt however suggest those terms are interchangeable . Best does not necessarily mean least expensive . In fact , it may mean just the opposite . The best auto insurance would provide coverage for : 1 . Injury or damage you might cause to someone , in particular someone you care about who may be riding in your car . I would suggest a limit of not less than $ 100,000 . 2 . Injury to you or your family members residing with you should they be injured in an accident caused by someone else . Again I would suggest a limit not less than $ 100,000 . 3 . The cost to repair or replace your car or any car you happen to be driving -LRB- borrowed , loaned , rented -RRB- should it be damaged in an accident I would suggest not purchasing coverage on-line or over the phone from someone you have no other contact with . An insurance policy is a very expensive piece of paper until you get a chance to use it . Buy from someone who will help you complete the paperwork , someone who already has a good working relationship with the insurance company and someone who would stand with you if there were a problem . Once these conditions are met , then look at the pricing and make your selection . More often than not , this will be the best auto insurance for you and your family .
Health insurance in the US began during the Civil War era with policies issued by the Massachusetts Health Insurance Company . The Blue Cross association was the first group to start what would evolve in to modern health insurance plans in this country . Other carriers , including Time Insurance -LRB- now known as Asssurant -RRB- have a long history of offering health insurance to individuals and employer groups . Over the last few years carriers such as Mutual of Omaha , Bankers Life and Casualty , Aetna , Cigna -LRB- formerly Connecticut General -RRB- and others have become prominent in the health insurance market . Kaiser Permanente introduce the HMO concept in 1933
If you 're on original Medicare -LRB- Medicare Part A & Part B -RRB- , and go to a doctor and that doctor does not accept Medicare assignment -LRB- accepting the Medicare-approved amount as payment in full -RRB- , the doctor reserves the right to bill you an `` excess charge '' . An excess charge is an amount up to 15 % above and beyond the medicare-approved amount for the services provided by the doctor . For each type of service , examination , procedure , etc. , Medicare has an approved amount they deem as a reasonable and customary charge - this is known as the `` Medicare-approved amount '' . If the doctor accepts assignment , they are accepting the Medicare-approved amount as payment in full for services provided . If the doctor does not accept assignment , they can bill you an excess charge . For example , if you had an exam completed that they billed $ 500 for . Medicare says that a reasonable and customary charge is $ 400 . This means that Medicare will pay $ 400 for the exam that was completed . If the doctor accepts assignment , they take the $ 400 as payment in full . If they do not accept assignment , they can bill you up to 15 % of that $ 400 amount as an excess charge . In this example , the doctor could bill you for another $ 60 -LRB- $ 400 x 15 % = $ 60 -RRB- . If your Medigap plan covers excess charges , the Medigap insurance carrier will pay it for you . If the plan does not cover excess charges , you will be responsible for the payment of the excess charge . The two Medigap plans that cover excess charges are plans F and G. All of the other Medigap plans do not offer this benefit . So if you 'd like to have this benefit and do not already have a plan F or plan G , you may want to consider applying for one with a carrier . Remember , Medigap plans are standardized , so the only difference between insurance companies Medigap plans are the price they charge for it . Please note , certain states do not allow excess charges -LRB- due to the Medicare Overcharge Measure law -RRB- . The states that do not allow excess charges are Connecticut , Massachusetts , Minnesota , New York , Ohio , Pennsylvania , Rhode Island and Vermont . If you live in one of these states , then the Medicare Part B excess charge benefit of Medigap plans F and G will not be major concern unless you move out of the state . Please note , those living in these states may want to consider Medigap plans C and D for price comparison to Medigap plans F and G as they provide the exact same coverage , just without the excess charge benefit , and may provide you some savings on your premiums . I hope the information is helpful - please feel free to contact me for help with your coverage and if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
This is a subject of some debate and depends upon how strictly you define what health insurance is . Some can trace the origins of health insurance back to the American Civil War era though these were primarily accident policies for travelling by railroad or steamboats -LRB- which could be risky propositions back in those days -RRB- . Others point to a plan offered as early as 1847 by Massachusetts Health Insurance of Boston . Individual disability and illness policies began to be sold to individuals by insurance companies in the 1890 's . What we would recognize as the first modern major medical insurance plan was probably one formed in Dallas , Texas in 1929 when a group of teachers entered into a contract with Baylor Hospital for room , board and medical services in exchange for a fixed monthly fee . This was followed in the early 1930 's with several major life insurance companies beginning to market individual and later group health insurance policies . At about the same time the first Blue Cross and Blue Shield hospital and medical plans built on a non-profit model were formed .
There is no such thing as best car insurance in any state let alone Massachusetts . You may to need to qualify your meaning of best car insurance . Do mean best in lower rates , good service , best claims service ? There are few really bad insurance companies . The all come under state regulation are required certain level of ethics and behavior . It is true that you may encounter different experience as you engage any insurance company . That encounter may cement your opining about that company . Geico rates are going up because of a dismal first quarter profits . You opinion of Geico may change because they were once cheap and now they are expensive . What do really mean by best insurance company in Mass ?
If you believe that a deceased individual owned life insurance you should first start by attempting to find paperwork from a life insurer . If you are successful in doing this , call the insurer with information including the deceased 's date of birth and social security number . If you are not the beneficiary the insurer will not be able to disclose information to you , but you can either have the beneficiary contact the insurer or give the insurer contact information for the beneficiary . If you are unsuccessful at locating paperwork , you can contact the Medial Information Bureau -LRB- MIB -RRB- located in Massachusetts and use their policy finder tool . There is a cost for this , and the success rate of finding a policy is admittedly low , but this can sometimes be helpful . Lastly , you can wait . Insurer 's are supposed to report proceeds to the state in which the deceased was a legal resident to the state 's department of treasury et . al. and hand funds over to them . This is coordinated through the Social Security Administrations Death Master File database . You can then contact the state 's treasury department to inquire about funds being released by an insurer .
John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Company was established in Massachusetts in 1862 . John Hancock went from a mutual company to a stock company in the year 2000 , and was renamed John Hancock Financial Services , Inc. . Manulife Financial Corp -LRB- based in Cananda -RRB- acquired John Hancock Financial in 2004 . John Hancock Life Insurance Company now writes life insurance in the USA . It is a highly respected carrier for life insurance and other financial products .
SBLI stands for Savings Bank Life Insurance Company of Massachusetts . The company is rated A + by AM Best at this time . They offer both guaranteed level term insurance and annually renewable term . With a highly rated company and a guaranteed level term product , you should have a good term life insurance policy with SBLI .
SBLI Life Insurance started in 1907 . Boston lawyer Louis D. Brandeis helped pass Chapter 561 of the Acts of 1907 , an act that allowed Savings Banks to sell life insurance in Massachusetts . The Whitman Savings Bank took up the charge by establishing the Savings Bank Life Insurance Department and SBLI was started .
The first actual mandatory auto insurance was in 1927 in the state of Massachusetts . Shortly after most other states began mandating auto insurance . Allot has changed in the laws over the years as it relates to financial responsibility but mandatory auto insurance has been around for a long time . Insurance is state regulated , not federal . There is a couple of states still do not mandate auto insurance if you can demonstrate the financial means to cover the minimum amounts for bodily injury , property damage and liability in that state . Of course you might as well put a sign around your neck that says please sue me , I have money .
end question
start question
health-insurance
How Much Is Family Health Insurance Per Month ?
How much is family health insurance ? With more than 33 years of experience as a health insurance broker , I 'll provide a quick , accurate and direct answer . Your cost could be $ 1 per month or much more , depending on your federal subsidy -LRB- and of course , household income -RRB- , your age , where you live , and type of coverage you need . Of course , our job is to find the best rates and coverage , and explain which plans are the best options . As you can see , there are multiple answers to the question . But the most important thing is to get the best value for your money .
How much you should be paying is a hard figure to try and quantify . The average cost per person in the country for a health insurance plan is $ 328 per month - however , this is only reflective upon a silver level plan -LRB- not all 2014 state figure averages are available yet -RRB- . While you can try to come up with an `` average '' cost , there 's too many factors that go into premium pricing to say how in relation that compares to you . In short , an `` average '' premium is a rather useless figure to the individual . It 's only representative to a large group - you could have people paying a small nominal amount -LRB- after factoring in subsidies -RRB- per month to several thousand dollars per month . Even for that there 's a ton of information to sift through to get an accurate representation . Under the new Affordable Care Act , you have the options for bronze , silver , gold , and platinum level plans -LRB- as you go up in metal , the price goes up , but provides better benefits -RRB- - some areas also have a catastrophic plan available . In addition , your age is a big factor as well . The younger you are , the cheaper your premium - the older you are , the higher your premium . Also , if you use tobacco products , your premium can be increased up to 50 % as well . You may be able to qualify for a subsidy that can be used to reduce the cost of your health insurance premiums . You may also have options for group coverage through your employer . I always recommend consulting with an experienced broker . We can help you determine the plan that 's going to be most suitable for your needs and budget . Please let me know if I can be of further assistance . Thanks very much .
Most individuals receiving Medicare Part B will pay the standard monthly premium -LRB- $ 104.90 per month in 2014 - this number can change each year -RRB- . Some people may be subject to the higher income penalty if they earn above $ 85,000 on their MAGI -LRB- modified adjusted gross income -RRB- as stated on their individual tax return or married filing single tax return from 2 years prior , above $ 170,000 -LRB- if married filing jointly -RRB- . If filing an individual tax return , the premium brackets are as follows for 2014 : 1 -RRB- $ 85,000 or less - $ 104.90 per month 2 -RRB- $ 85,001 - $ 107,000 - $ 146.90 per month 3 -RRB- $ 107,001 - $ 160,000 - $ 209.80 per month 4 -RRB- $ 160,001 - $ 214,000 - $ 272.70 per month 5 -RRB- $ 214,001 or more - $ 335.70 per month If married filing jointly , the premium brackets are as follows for 2014 : 1 -RRB- $ 170,000 or less - $ 104.90 per month 2 -RRB- $ 170,001 - $ 214,000 - $ 146.90 per month 3 -RRB- $ 214,001 - $ 320,000 - $ 209.80 per month 4 -RRB- $ 320,001 - $ 428,000 - $ 272.70 per month 5 -RRB- $ 428,001 or more - $ 335.70 per month If married filing single , the premium brackets are as follows for 2014 : 1 -RRB- $ 85,000 or less - $ 104.90 per month 2 -RRB- $ 85,001 - $ 129,000 - $ 272.70 per month 3 -RRB- $ 129,001 or more - $ 335.70 per month Part B will pay for approximately 80 % of your physician service expenses leaving you responsible for the other 20 % . If you want to add prescription drug coverage or a Medicare supplement plan to cover the gaps in Original Medicare -LRB- Part A & Part B -RRB- , you will have additional premium expenses , however , it will help you create a much more predictable healthcare expense structure -LRB- the premiums will also be based on the plan you 're applying for , your age , and other factors -RRB- .
The premium for Medicare Part B is $ 104.90 per month in 2014 -LRB- this number can change each year -RRB- . The premium can be higher for individuals whose incomes are in the following brackets : If filing an individual tax return : 1 -RRB- $ 85,000 or less = $ 104.90 per month 2 -RRB- $ 85,001 - $ 107,000 = $ 146.90 per month 3 -RRB- 107,001 - $ 160,000 = $ 209.80 per month 4 -RRB- 160,001 - $ 214,000 = $ 272.70 per month 5 -RRB- $ 214,001 and up = $ 335.70 per month If filing a joint tax return : 1 -RRB- $ 170,000 or less = $ 104.90 per month 2 -RRB- $ 170,001 - $ 214,000 = $ 146.90 per month 3 -RRB- $ 214,001 - $ 320,000 = $ 209.80 per month 4 -RRB- $ 320,001 - $ 428,000 = $ 272.70 per month 5 -RRB- $ 428,001 and up = $ 335.70 per month If filing a married & separate tax return : 1 -RRB- $ 85,000 or less = $ 104.90 per month 2 -RRB- $ 85,001 - $ 129,000 = $ 272.70 per month 3 -RRB- $ 129,001 and up = $ 335.70 per month If you want to review Medicare supplements to help cover the gaps in Original Medicare -LRB- Parts A & B -RRB- , contact an independent agent/broker to review Medicare supplement plans available in your zip code . If you would like assistance with your Medicare supplement program or have any other questions , you can send me a private message through the `` contact me '' button .
The cost of life insurance can range from a few dollars per month to many thousands per month . The real question is how much would it cost you to get the proper policy for your situation . In order to find that out you need to first determine how much death benefit you need . The best way to calculate how much life insurance you need is by doing a comprehensive needs analysis . If you are looking for a quick rule-of-thumb , we recommend you carry at least ten times your annual income in life insurance . The second factor is how long do you think you will need the coverage . You might want life insurance to cover your mortgage which will be paid off in a certain period of time , or you might want life insurance just until your children are grown and self supporting . Maybe you want to have life insurance for whenever you die , be it next year or when you 're 90 . The third key factor is your budget . You might like the idea of a large permanent life insurance policy , but the premium may simply be more than you can reasonably afford . So in order to determine how much life insurance costs per month , you need to figure out how much life insurance you need , how long you need it and what your budget allows . By going through this process you can determine how much the proper life insurance policy for you will cost .
Great question . I ca n't really give a number to say is the average cost of a Medicare Supplement Plan F because the price of a policy depends on several factors - your age , your gender , your zip code , and whether you use tobacco products . Each carrier also charges a different rate even though the coverage is exactly the same for Medicare Supplement Plan F -LRB- Medicare Supplement plans are standardized -RRB- . Typically you can figure the price range to be somewhere around $ 120 - $ 150 per month for the lowest cost option in a given zip code if you 're a male in your 60 's - a female in her 60 's may be in the range of $ 80 - $ 120 per month . Someone in their 70s or 80s is probably going to be in the neighborhood of $ 200 + per month . An example regarding the zip code aspect , a 65 year old male in the Washington DC area -LRB- let 's assume zip code 20016 -RRB- would be $ 127 per month with United Healthcare - a 65 year old male in Houston , Texas -LRB- let 's assume zip code 77071 -RRB- would be $ 149 per month with United Healthcare . An example regarding my note about the carriers charging different rates for the same exact Medicare Supplement plan -LRB- using the 20016 zip code again -RRB- - United Healthcare charges $ 127 per month for a 65 year old male whereas Mutual of Omaha charges $ 194 per month for the exact same plan for the 65 year old male -LRB- no differences between the two carriers ' Medicare Supplement plan benefits -RRB- . Some areas United Healthcare may be cheaper than Mutual of Omaha in and vice versa in other areas as well as other insurance companies . There are multiple options to choose from and you ideally want to secure the coverage with the lowest possible cost . Why pay more with one company than another for the same exact policy and benefits ? To determine what the costs are you 're looking at for yourself specifically , I would need to know your age , gender , zip code , and whether you use any tobacco products - I would then be able to generate the quotes for you accordingly . I would also consider looking at the rates for a Medicare Supplement plan G. It 's exactly the same plan as plan F , but does n't cover the Medicare Part B deductible which is only $ 147 in 2015 . So if the difference in premiums is $ 20 - $ 30 + per month , plan G can offer you substantial savings . Think `` how much extra are you spending to protect against a risk of $ 147 ? '' If the difference in premiums is $ 30 per month between the lowest cost option for plan F and the lowest cost option for plan G , that would mean you would be spending $ 360 per year to protect against a risk of $ 147 . In that example , plan G would be more cost advantageous to you . I hope the information is helpful - please feel free to give me a call or send me an e-mail by clicking on the contact me button to discuss your coverage options in further detail and to go over any other questions you may have . Thanks very much .
The cost of life insurance is extremely variable based on one 's age , health , and the type of policy one purchases . The premium for a $ 100,000 policy can range from a few dollars per month to hundreds of dollars per month , depending on these variables . A good place to start is to look at how much you need , and also how much you can afford to spend on life insurance . You do n't want to get in over your head and have to drop the policy in a short time . But if your family or business would suffer without you , it is an important purchase worth budgeting for , too .
How much you should be paying is a hard figure to try and quantify . The average cost per person in the country for a health insurance plan is $ 328 per month - however , this is only reflective upon a silver level plan -LRB- not all 2014 state figure averages are available yet -RRB- . While you can try to come up with an `` average '' cost , there 's too many factors that go into premium pricing to say how in relation that compares to you . In short , an `` average '' premium is a rather useless figure to the individual . It 's only representative to a large group - you could have people paying a small nominal amount -LRB- after factoring in subsidies -RRB- per month to several thousand dollars per month . Even for that there 's a ton of information to sift through to get an accurate representation . Under the new Affordable Care Act , you have the options for bronze , silver , gold , and platinum level plans -LRB- as you go up in metal , the price goes up , but provides better benefits -RRB- - some areas also have a catastrophic plan available . In addition , your age is a big factor as well . The younger you are , the cheaper your premium - the older you are , the higher your premium . Also , if you use tobacco products , your premium can be increased up to 50 % as well . You may be able to qualify for a subsidy that can be used to reduce the cost of your health insurance premiums . You may also have options for group coverage through your employer . I always recommend consulting with an experienced broker . We can help you determine the plan that 's going to be most suitable for your needs and budget . Please let me know if I can be of further assistance . Thanks very much .
An employer can not discriminate against an employee based upon their age -LRB- among a multitude of other factors -RRB- . However , that does not necessarily mean that an older employee who compares what they are contributing towards their employer based health insurance with a younger co-worker of the same coverage level will find themselves paying the same amount . This may initially be perceived by the older employee as though they are being discriminated against but this is almost certainly not the case . If your employer 's group health insurance rates are age based rates then there is a different rate for each year of age for a covered employee . The community rating requirements of ObamaCare have pushed many health insurance carriers towards this age rated basis though some health insurance carriers still develop a `` composite '' rate for a group after quoting them on an age rated basis -LRB- composite rates are one rate for every employee with Employee Only , Employee + Spouse , Employee + Child -LRB- ren -RRB- or Family coverage regardless of the employee 's age -RRB- . This is how things work under community rating . First of all , there can be no more than a 3 to 1 ratio between the rates for the youngest and oldest employees in the group . To keep things simple let 's say the monthly rate for a 25 year old is $ 200 per month then the monthly rate for a 60 year old would be $ 600 per month . Then let 's say that your employer pays 50 % of the employee only rate which leaves the other 50 % for the employee to pay . Under this scenario the 25 year old 's cost would be $ 100 per month -LRB- $ 200 x 50 % -RRB- and the 60 year old 's share would be $ 300 per month -LRB- $ 600 x 50 % -RRB- . Even though the dollar amount paid by each employee differs significantly the employer is treating them the same in that the employer is contributing the same percentage amount towards each employee 's coverage . Therefore , there is no discrimination . This is one of the effects of ObamaCare that is increasingly being seen by employees as their old health insurance plans and rate structures are being replaced by ObamaCare compliant plans and the new community rating method .
How much a specific individual should be paying for health insurance is a hard figure to try and quantify . The average cost in the country for a health insurance plan is $ 328 per month - however , this is only reflective upon a silver level plan -LRB- not all 2014 state figure averages are available yet -RRB- . While you can try to come up with an `` average '' cost , there 's too many factors that go into premium pricing to say how in relation that compares to you . In short , an `` average '' premium is a rather useless figure to the individual . It 's only representative to a large group - you could have people paying a small nominal amount -LRB- after factoring in subsidies -RRB- per month to several thousand dollars per month . Even for that there 's a ton of information to sift through to get an accurate representation . Under the Affordable Care Act , you have the options for bronze , silver , gold , and platinum level plans -LRB- as you go up in metal , the price goes up , but provides better benefits -RRB- - some areas also have a catastrophic plan available . In addition , your age is a big factor as well . The younger you are , the cheaper your premium - the older you are , the higher your premium . Also , if you use tobacco products , your premium can be increased up to 50 % as well . You may be able to qualify for a subsidy that can be used to reduce the cost of your health insurance premiums . I always recommend consulting with an experienced broker . We can help you determine the plan that 's going to be most suitable for your needs and budget . Please feel free to contact me for further assistance . Thanks very much .
In short , COBRA is an extension of the current group health insurance plan offered to employees after they have left the company . This coverage can be kept for up to 18 months and is only available to individuals and families covered under a plan with more than 20 employees enrolled . Premiums for COBRA coverage are 102 % of the total cost of insurance this is important because many employers pay for part of the cost while the employee is still working . If you were only paying half of the premium before and your employer paid the other half , you would now be paying the entire thing yourself plus 2 % . Please note , COBRA election applies to each person individually that is covered under a given policy . If five family members are covered under a COBRA policy , they can all accept the coverage or accept it on an individual basis -LRB- for example , one or two family members accepting and three or four rejecting -RRB- . This is important because individual market health insurance can often be much less expensive than a COBRA policy , which can average $ 1,200-1 ,500 for a family and upwards of $ 2,500 per month for Cadillac plans at some companies . If you are in good health and offered COBRA coverage , do n't wait until it expires to look for a new policy . Please let me know if I can be of further assistance . Thanks very much .
How much you should be paying is a hard figure to try and quantify . The average cost in the country for a health insurance plan is $ 328 per month - however , this is only reflective upon a silver level plan -LRB- not all 2014 state figure averages are available yet -RRB- . While you can try to come up with an `` average '' cost , there 's too many factors that go into premium pricing to say how in relation that compares to you . In short , an `` average '' premium is a rather useless figure to the individual . It 's only representative to a large group - you could have people paying a small nominal amount -LRB- after factoring in subsidies -RRB- per month to several thousand dollars per month . Even for that there 's a ton of information to sift through to get an accurate representation . Under the new Affordable Care Act , you have the options for bronze , silver , gold , and platinum level plans -LRB- as you go up in metal , the price goes up , but provides better benefits -RRB- - some areas also have a catastrophic plan available . In addition , your age is a big factor as well . The younger you are , the cheaper your premium - the older you are , the higher your premium . Also , if you use tobacco products , your premium can be increased up to 50 % as well . You may be able to qualify for a subsidy that can be used to reduce the cost of your health insurance premiums . I always recommend consulting with an experienced broker . We can help you determine the plan that 's going to be most suitable for your needs and budget . Please let me know if I can be of further assistance . Thanks very much .
How much you should be paying is a hard figure to try and quantify . The average cost in the country for a health insurance plan is $ 328 per month - however , this is only reflective upon a silver level plan -LRB- not all 2014 state figure averages are available yet -RRB- . While you can try to come up with an `` average '' cost , there 's too many factors that go into premium pricing to say how in relation that compares to you . In short , an `` average '' premium is a rather useless figure to the individual . It 's only representative to a large group - you could have people paying a small nominal amount -LRB- after factoring in subsidies -RRB- per month to several thousand dollars per month . Even for that there 's a ton of information to sift through to get an accurate representation . Under the Affordable Care Act , you have the options for bronze , silver , gold , and platinum level plans -LRB- as you go up in metal , the price goes up , but provides better benefits -RRB- - some areas also have a catastrophic plan available . In addition , your age is a big factor as well . The younger you are , the cheaper your premium - the older you are , the higher your premium . Also , if you use tobacco products , your premium can be increased up to 50 % as well . You may be able to qualify for a subsidy that can be used to reduce the cost of your health insurance premiums . I always recommend consulting with an experienced broker . We can help you determine the plan that 's going to be most suitable for your needs and budget . Please feel free to contact me for further assistance . Thanks very much .
That really depends on your current situation . Are you married ? Do you have children ? A mortgage ? Do you support your parents ? If you were n't around any more , how difficult would it be for your family to survive ? One way to look at how much life insurance to get is to figure out how much of your income your family needs each month -LRB- include things that you do that they may now have to hire people for -RRB- and how long they will need it . -LRB- For instance until your kids are through school -RRB- . That is how much life insurance you need .
Individual Penalties 2014 - Greater of $ 95.00 per Adult , $ 47.50 per child -LRB- $ 285.00 Maximum for family -RRB- or 1 % of taxable household income 2015 - Greater of $ 325.00 per Adult , $ 162.50 per child -LRB- $ 975.00 Maximum for family -RRB- or 2 % of taxable household income 2016 - Greater of $ 695.00 per Adult , $ 347.50 per child -LRB- $ 2085.00 Maximum for family -RRB- or 2.5 % of taxable household income
The penalties are as follows according to the Colorado Exchange ... in 2014 greater of $ 95 per adult , $ 47.50 per child with a maximum of $ 285 for the family or 1 % of taxable household income . In 2015 , the greater of $ 325 per adult , $ 162.50 per child with a family max of $ 975 or 2 % of taxable income . In 2016 , the greater of $ 695 per adult , $ 347.50 per child with a family maximum of $ 2,085 or 2.5 % of taxable household income .
There 's many factors that go into the premium calculations for life insurance to say what coverage will cost for a 60 year old - it will be different for every person due to a number of factors including their age , amount of coverage they want , how long they want the coverage for , their risk classifcation , and whether they 're applying with full underwriting or non-medical term coverage . At age 60 , you 'll have term life insurance options for 10 , 15 , 20 , or 25 years - 30 years term insurance would not be available due to age - you would need to look at permanent programs to secure coverage longer than 25 years . If you want to consider coverage beyond 25 years , I would suggest looking at a Guaranteed Universal Life insurance policy -LRB- GUL -RRB- . If you 're looking for something in the $ 100,000 , 10yr term insurance range , you could be looking at premiums as low as $ 28 per month -LRB- at preferred plus risk class -RRB- to over $ 100 + per month -LRB- if you 're table-rated -RRB- , it ultimately depends on the risk classification you qualify for . $ 250,000 , 15 yr term can be as low as $ 82 per month or over $ 154 per month at standard risk class . So on and so forth . However , any numbers I quote without more details regarding your medical history will be useless . The risk classification is the MOST critical factor in determining the cost -LRB- premium -RRB- of a life insurance policy . The risk class depends on a number of factors including whether you 're male or female , your medical history , prescriptions you take , your height/weight profile , any tobacco usage , family medical history , and other factors . Please keep in mind - every carrier has different underwriting guidelines , and each may offer a different risk class for a given medical profile - e.g. company A may offer preferred -LRB- featuring lower rates -RRB- and company B may only offer standard -LRB- featuring higher rates -RRB- . You should always consult with an experienced life insurance broker before applying for ANY coverage . Brokers can shop the case for you among a number of insurance companies to see which one will work best for your program and help you structure a policy that will best serve your needs and your budget . I hope the information is helpful - please feel free to contact me for help and if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
This varies for each person . A lot of variables go into the calculation of determining how much life insurance you need , how long you need it , and what is an appropriate amount to actually secure . A life insurance calculator can help with this . A few things to get you started when calculating out what you need and how long you need it for are : 1 -RRB- Do you have a mortgage ? If so , how much is left on it and how many more years do you have to go until it 's paid off ? 2 -RRB- Any final expenses you want paid off -LRB- e.g. burial expenses , credit card debt , medical bills -RRB- ? 3 -RRB- Education expenses for you or a family member you want to pay off -LRB- such as college tuition -RRB- 4 -RRB- Income replacement - this is a big one ! A question to think about here is how much income would be needed if you died today and how long would your family need it to maintain their current lifestyle . An experienced life insurance broker can help you with this and make it a much smoother , easier process . I hope the information is helpful - please feel free to contact me for help and if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
Disability Income Insurance evaluates health factors , so the cost of the policy will depend on how the applicant is rated health wise . If a nonsmoker who is of normal weight and has no health history , Preferred ratings can be given . The price also depends on the risk of the occupation , how much income the applicant makes -LRB- and how much of that income they want to replace in case of disability -RRB- , and what bells and whistles they want on their policy . For a 40 year old male office worker who makes $ 60,000 per year , the price can be as good as $ 50 per month for a plan that will last to age 65 .
Starting Jan. 1st , 2014 , the tax penalty for not having health insurance is $ 95 per person for the year , up to 3 persons max per household and where dependents under 21 count as half a person ; or 1 % of annual income , whichever is greater ... So , a family of 4 or more , would only pay a max of $ 285 in 2014 -LRB- $ 95 x 2adults = $ 190 , plus 2 children at $ 47.50 = $ 95 , for a total of $ 285 -RRB- . But , for a single individual non-dependent , they would most likely pay the 1 % of income , up to the $ 285 max -LRB- i.e. a single 33yr old with $ 22,000 annual income would pay 1 % or $ 220 for the year , because $ 220 is greater than the $ 95 per person and below the $ 285 max household -RRB- . After 2014 the tax penalty increases to $ 325 in 2015 , or 2 % of income up to $ 975 max -LRB- 3x $ 325 -RRB- . Followed by $ 695 in 2016 , or 2.5 % of income up to $ 2,085 max -LRB- 3x $ 695 -RRB- ; and then adjusted to Cost of Living Increases thereafter . Also , the penalty can be prorated . So , if you are only uninsured for 1 month out of the year where a penalty would be applied , you would only pay one month 's worth of penalties -LRB- i.e. For 2014 , if you miss one month you would pay $ 95/12 = $ 7.92 per person , or 1 % of your income/12 -RRB- . And due to the application processes and effective dates for insurance , one day of being uninsured , equals one month . So , be very aware of when you apply for insurance and when it will take effect . It 's best to work with an insurance agent or broker , and an accountant , to calculate the exact tax implications for your individual situation ; to assure that you are indeed responsible to pay the tax or if you are exempt from it .
end question
start question
long-term-care-insurance
Who Should Have Long Term Care Insurance ?
You should have long term care insurance before you enter retirement , generally before age 60 . If your family has a predisposition for a specific disease of a health history for needing nursing home care , you should consider securing it as soon as possible . We 're living longer and the need for assisted living at home is more than likely a reasonable future for most .
Those who should have long term care are those with considerable assets to protect or those who want to make their own choices about their long term care . Having long term care insurance pays for the cost of daily care , so that you do not have to liquidate savings and investments to pay for it . Most policies now pay the benefit to you so that you can spend it to hire a relative to care for you in home , hire a caregiver so that you can stay in your independent living residence , or all sorts of options .
Maybe one should not get long-term care insurance . Let 's start there . If an individual or a family has a sizeable estate that either is liquid or can be liquidated and be made readily available to pay for the cost of long-term care , maybe long-term care is n't needed . If , on the other extreme , you have a very small estate comprised of no real estate and very little personal property of any worth and will rely almost entirely on Social Security in retirement , you ca n't afford long-term care premiums , now or in the future . You will have to have a plan , however , in case you do need long-term care . A family discussion around the topic should be scheduled so that those that might become either temporary or permanent caregivers are fully apprised of the responsibilities and sacrifices that may have to be made . Medicaid qualification should be fully investigated and the benefits and limitations understood . People buy long-term care for roughly the same reason they buy life insurance . One buys life insurance because they care about the financial security of those that are left behind . One buys long-term care insurancebecause they care about those that might have to take care of them if they ca n't take care of themselves . Long-term care costs are not covered by conventional health insurance , Medicare , and most Medicare supplement insurance . They can be very expensive , especially ifthe elderly person lives a long-period of time in a state of incapacity . Caregivers will be spouses and adult children are likely to be caregivers whether one owns long-term care insurance or not . Long-term care insurance is for caregivers . It gives them choices about the quality of care that can be afforded and whether they can be relieved of some of the responsibility for caregiving . Many elderly spouses of those that ca n't take care of themselves become disabled themselves because of the emotional and psychological energy expended in caregiving . Adult children sometimes get caught in a conflict over eldercare and parenting growing children . Long-term care insurance provides income-tax-free money to hire trained individuals to care for loved ones . Ultimately , it allows the insured to die with dignity and peace . Getting back to the wealthy that do n't need to buy long-term care insurance , guess what ? Many wealthy couples and individuals do . They understand leverage : paying smaller dollars now for larger dollars later , if needed . They also understand that in many situations , premiums for long-term care may be tax-deductible . What about the middle class ? They would have to design their coverage to help offset the cost of long-term care . No matter how much one spends , no long-term care insurance policy can guarantee to cover all possible long-term care expenses . But , the average claim is about 24 - 26 months . Buying a long-term care policy with a pool of money sufficient to cover at least part of those costs would be prudent . Is buying a basic plan for long-term care that would pay only half of one 's long-term care costs be a bad deal ? I do n't think anyone that 's paying $ 400/day for facility care and being reimbursed for $ 200/day would find that of no value .
A better question would be `` Who Should n't Buy Long-term Care Insurance '' ? Thats simpler to answer . The following people should NOT buy long term care insurance : 1 . Those that can not afford the premium on even a base policy . 2 . Those that have virtually no assets to pass on to the next generationand will need every available dollar saved for retirement . 3 . Those that will have to work until they die for lack of savings and insufficient Social Security payments or private pension . 4 . Those that can not medically qualify . 5 . Those that are already unable to perform regular daily activities of living without assistance . People in those conditions may qualify for the payment of long-term care through Medicaid -LRB- MediCal in California -RRB- if they come to a point in their life where they need care and ca n't afford it . If the above conditions describe you in any way , you should be sitting down with your adult children or closest relatives and coming up with a plan of action should you be unable to take care of yourself . Everyone else should consider buying some long-term care insurance through an agent or agency that either specializes or has a specialist that is experienced in handling long-term care insurance casework . Having some amount of insurance is better than having none . When one qualifies to receive payments from the insurance company for long-term care , they are usually near the end of their life . The average long-term care claim is approximately 2 - 2.5 years . For those that need care longer than that , virtually all but the most unusual claims are paid out after 5 years . Families with a history of late-life mental illness -LRB- dementia or Alzheimers -RRB- should consider buying a larger pool of money than others , if they can afford it . It is in the best interest of the adult children to help out with long-term care premium payments if the elderly parents can not afford to pay all of the costs . Long-term care is an emotional , psychological , sociological , and family problem as much as it is financial . For the dignity of those who need care and the people or person most likely to be the caregiver , there needs to be a plan of action determined and long-term care insurance should be a part of that plan if it can be afforded and the person is medically qualified . Long-term care insurance is best purchased when young . Premiums can and will go up during the life of the policy if all the bells and whistles are included in the design of the coverage . But , those increases will seem like pocket-change if one needs long-term care . $ 80,000 per year is not unusual for facility care today . 24/7 home care can exceed $ 20,000 per month ! With family help , home care costs can be kept down . But , if facility care is required , there 's not much that can be done about avoiding high costs . Long-term care costs vary by place . The left - and right-hand coasts are the most expensive . Relocation may be necessary to get affordable care in a quality facility .
Short answer : About 8 % Long answer : It 's hard to say exactly how many people own some type of policy that covers paying the costs of long term care - should one qualify for it - because there are many types of insurance policies that are not just `` stand-alone '' long-term care policies , but plans of insurance that include being able to use a percentage of other plan benefits for paying long-term care costs :1 . Stand-alone long-term care insurance covers only long-term care costs . It has no cash value . When a policy owner dies , coverage either lapses or stops paying benefits . It is not transferable . It can not be bought or sold on a secondary market . This type of long-term care insurance is sometimes referred to as `` traditional '' long-term care insurance , as well . It is the type of coverage that is most often associated with the `` percentage of Americans that own their own long-term care insurance '' .2 . Hybrid long-term care contracts consist of having long-term coverage and a life insurance policy that guarantees to at least return the full premium paid into the policy to the insured 's designated beneficiary . Usually , these are single-premium contracts , but some have options to also pay over a specified period of time , such as 5 - or 10-years .3 . Linked life + long-term care policies are basically a traditional permanent life insurance contract -LRB- Whole Life or Universal Life , including the Variable or Indexed type -RRB- . If a person qualifies for long-term care and they have the long-term care rider on their life policy , they may apply to the insurance company to advance or accelerate the face value of the policy -LRB- death benefit -RRB- to pay for the costs of care . There are various limitations on how much can be advanced at a time . If the face value of the life contract is completely advanced for long-term care , there is usually a residual death benefit of $ 5,000 - $ 10,000.4 . The latest addition to life insurance product lines are policies offering `` living benefits '' , one of which is very similar to the linked-life policy . In fact , the only difference is that a medical professional has to state in writing that the insured is not likely to recover from the condition that qualifies for long-term care benefits . -LRB- True long-term care insurance does not require that . -RRB- This type of living benefit is most often referred to as `` chronic care '' or `` extended care '' . Annuities may also have special considerations for paying out portions of the account value for long-term care costs.The point is , people who own life insurance or annuity contracts with long-term care accommodations are not typically included in with the 8 % that own traditional long-term care . So , the real percentage of those that have made some type of insurance purchase to offset long-term care costs is greater than 8 % . I doubt , however , that the total percentage of Americans that own any of the above-described types of policies would exceed 20 % at this time .
Long Term Health Care Insurance is called , simply , Long Term Care Insurance . It covers the cost of living in a nursing home , assisted living home , or receiving other types of services when the insured person is unable to take care of themselves . Among those who should buy Long Term Care Insurance are those who have many assets and feel strongly that they do not want their assets to go toward paying long term care expenses . People who want to have many choices in how and where they are cared for , should they be unable to care for themselves , are also people who would benefit from Long Term Care insurance , if they can afford it . Finally , persons whose families want the security of knowing that their parents will not rely on them for long term care , if needed , are those who should considering buying Long Term Care insurance .
Roughly sixty percent of Americans will require long term care services sometime during their lifetime . This is not exclusively a problem for the elderly as younger people can require this type of care some times . This level of care includes a range of services including skilled and custodial care that is provided over a long period of time . These requirements come from chronic sickness or injury , cognitive impairment and physical disability . Hospitals provide acute care . Medical care given over a long period of time for chronic conditions is where the need for long term care arises . Sometimes custodial care is required because the patient has lost the ability to do one of the recognized activities of daily living or instrumental activities of daily living . Most of the long term care given in the US is given by family members . However , there are many situations where family members can not provide necessary care . Professional and non-professionals can provide aid and assistance to these people . This long term care can be given in the home of the patient or in a variety of institutional settings . Long term care can be given in day-care facilities , nursing homes , and assisted living facilities . On average men need more than two years of long term care while women need almost four years on average ? The leading causes for patients requiring long term care are dementia , arthritis , cancer , stroke and nervous conditions . Caring for a patient in a home setting can cost up to $ 150,000 per year . The cost for a nursing home bed is about $ 75,000 per year -LRB- this varies by location . -RRB- There are basically four ways to finance long term care . The family can take the expense out of their own pocket , they can look to government programs -LRB- if they qualify , -RRB- they can use long term care insurance or they can rely upon charity . For a variety of reasons long term care insurance has provided a solution for many people . LTC insurance provides predictability for an otherwise unpredictable risk . It has become such popular coverage and policyholders have been so reluctant to drop their coverage that the benefits have started exceeding the premiums . It is quite popular among wealthy policyholders . Many companies that offered coverage have withdrawn and others have been forced to raise their premiums . This adjustment seems to be complete now . There are various forms of LTC coverage . Policies different widely . It is rather difficult to compare but is worth the effort . When deciding on a policy the first thing to establish is the amount of coverage you want and the period of time you want coverage . The second consideration is how soon after the start of long term care will you want the policy to start paying . This waiting period is computed in several ways so care must be exercised to make sure you are making a fair comparison . Not all policies use the same events to trigger benefits so care should be taken in this area as well . This can be a very technical area so compare your situation with the policy requirements . How a policy pays out will vary according to the policy . Some policies provide for reimbursement of expenses , others use an indemnity form which pays up to a specific limit of expenses incurred on each specific day , and some are on a cash model which pays a maximum benefit regardless of the actual cost of the care that is being given . Long term care insurance is a way to protect assets . The alternatives deplete assets with the government programs requiring a person to be in poverty .
Not everyone needs long term care insurance . LTCI is not for persons who are struggling to meet their day to day living expenses , rent an apartment , and have little savings and no investments . If such a person needed to go to a nursing home , Medicaid will almost immediately start picking up their tab and they will be fine . Long term care insurance is for those who have substantial assets or income that they do n't want to `` lose '' by paying high long term care costs . Some people are OK with their savings going to long term care expenses , if needed . They figure that is why they saved . Others feel strongly that they want to pass that wealth to heirs to continue a business , care for a disabled adult child , or help grandchildren go to college , among a myriad of other reasons . It is this latter segment of the population that `` needs '' long term care insurance , especially if they are not so very wealthy that paying nursing home expenses for many years would simply dent their resources , rather than deplete them . If they can afford long term care insurance , but would not be able to to pay for long term care services , people who are adamant about choosing the type of care they receive , or persons who are setting up a plan so that their children do n't have to worry about it , also could use long term care insurance . As long as Medicaid is around , no one absolutely needs long term care insurance . But for all the reasons above , many people would consider it a need if they looked at it realistically .
70 % of people who are 65 years old will need to use some type of long term care in their lifetime . And , as they age the likelihood of needing long term care will increase . The cost for this care is very expensive and it is not covered by conventional health insurance - commercial carriers or Medicare . This is because our health care system is geared to acute care not long term care . According to the 2015 Genworth survey the national average cost for a semi-private room in a nursing home is about $ 80,000 . More , for a private room . Home Health care costs average $ 20/hour . These expense arise when most people are living on a fixed income with little room for added expenses . Especially , unplanned ones . Baby boomers have not been great at planning for retirement . One year of long term care can ruin someone 's retirement plans . This is what happens in many cases ; families deplete their assets and end up qualifying for Medicaid -LRB- aka Welfare -RRB- to pay for long term care expenses . The question people need to ask themselves is when the need for long term care arises , will they have the money to pay for this care ? This is what long term care insurance can do for them . Insurance is the only financial vehicle that promises a specific amount of money at a point in time . There is no other . Even though this can be an expensive premium , depending on the age at which the policy is purchased , compared to the benefits paid , it is worth the outlay for most people . Not only because it will help pay the bills . Long term care insurance policies offer additional benefits that most people are unaware of . Most importantly , all carriers offer optional care management to assist with the difficult decisions about care , choosing facilities and offering discounts on major providers of care . Many times families need someone to discuss options with who is educated about all the options available and is n't emotionally involved with their situation . This is where the care manager can be of tremendous help and the family does not have to go to the expense of hiring a geriatric care manager . The policies will also pay for modifications to be made to the home to keep the person at home rather than moving them to a nursing home .
Whether long-term care insurance should be `` mandated '' requires an associated question : `` Mandated by whom ? '' Also , any question that includes the word `` should '' involves a question of values and may fall into a political category of some kind.The question , however , is a good one . We have a looming crisis that has only just begun . Millions of people will soon be at the age of possibly needing extended care before they pass away . The current `` baby boom '' demographic has hit retirement age and is about 20-30 years from cresting at an age that many may need care before dying . Unless there are many medical advances , care accommodations , and/or technological improvements for elder care , hundreds of thousands of people in their 70s , 80s , and 90s and beyond will need assistance in successfully performing the activities of day-to-day life , such as feeding oneself , getting from one place to another , dressing , bathing , etc.Who is going to provide that care ? First , it will be family -LRB- spouse and/or adult children , if available -RRB- , but beyond that , there is only Medicaid -LRB- Medical in CA -RRB- to provide care services . The problem is that one must become `` indigent '' to qualify for government aid , and one must be admitted to an approved facility to receive care . -LRB- Medicare currently only provides hospital , recovery , and skilled nursing care for a maximum period of 100 days . A hospital stay for a minimum of three days is required to qualify in most cases . -RRB- If the questioner is asking should the government be mandated to provide long-term care , then this is entirely a political question . The government , ultimately , is the tax-payer . Congress is the body of our government that legislates laws.If the questioner is asking should everyone be mandated to purchase their own long-term care coverage , the answer is probably `` no '' . Even though that might seem like a solution , the cost of privately-owned long-term care is currently far beyond the reach of many Americans . Some could not even afford the premiums of a base policy which would n't come close to paying what long-term care might end up costing.A commission formed by Congress is currently meeting to debate and hear testimony on the question of how we , as a society , will handle those that have no family or other support group , do not own long-term care insurance , and are `` taking too long to die '' . This makes the question a moral one , and one that deserves an answer so that people may die with dignity .
Asset Based Long Term Care provides a unique solution to providing for the expense of long term care while at the same time providing other benefits . Generally , it is provided with a base of life insurance or an annuity . One of the problems with traditional Long Term Care Insurance is affordability . Also the underwriting is very strict . Because Asset Based Long Term Care is underwritten much like a life insurance policy , it is usually easier to qualify . Many traditional Long Term Care policies are use it or lose it , although many policies do have return of premium provisions . With Asset Based Long Term care written with a life insurance chassis , if you do not use the long term care provision , you beneficiaries will receive the death benefit , as in a traditional life insurance policy . If the plan is Annuity based , you receive the interest and tax advantages of an annuity , but the flexibility of utilizing the funds for long term care should you need it . While most of these hybrid products are not as comprehensive as traditional long term care they can be a great alternative depending on the goals and personal situation of the client .
Who really needs long term care insurance ? EVERYBODY . The question really is who can afford long term care insurance ? What long term care insurance does for a person is create a pool of money to purchase the quality of care they want , rather than what they have to settlefor . All long term care insurance does is pay for better care and nicer facilities to reside in or home health care . When you do n't carry a long term care policy and have used up yourassets , you can still get care , covered by thegovernment , cept your say in the quality of care you receiveno longermatters . With the government having to find ways tomake budgets work , caringfor the elderly tends to slip down in priority funding wise .
First of all , there is no federal long-term care program . If a person is or becomes `` indigent '' by state standards , they may qualify to have their long-term care facility expenses paid for by Medicaid -LRB- Medical in CA -RRB- . There is a commission in Washington currently debating if there will be a federal long-term care program , but they will have no power to institute one and it 's doubtful that given our current budget deficit , a comprehensive program could be afforded by either the states or the feds -LRB- Medicaid is a jointly funded and administered medical program for the poor -RRB- . Private long-term care programs at this point in time consist of applying to an insurance company and going through full underwriting to determine insurability . If so , they are issued a long-term care policy of insurance . Only insurance agents that are certified to sell long term care -LRB- most states -RRB- can do so . There is a Partnership long-term care program in 36 states -LRB- plus charter Partnership programs still going in CA , CT , NY , and IN -RRB- . The state departments of health `` partner '' with the person with a Partnership-approved long-term care plan of insurance so that if they blow through the insurance policy maximum benefits and are still alive , the amount of the payout from the insurance company will increase the impoverishment threshold dollar-for-dollar for that person and if the insured 's personal non-exempt assets are lower than what the insurance company has paid out , Medicaid will take over payment of the person 's long-term care costs until s/he dies.Note that there are some limitations1 . The person needs to be in a facility for full payment of costs by Medicaid . -LRB- Home care reimbursement from Medicaid is under $ 300/mo . -RRB- 2 . A lien in the amount of money paid out by Medicaid is levied against the patient 's estate . -LRB- This is currently being debated and is a point of contention with some states and consumer groups . Whether it will actually be done is not certain , but it 's `` on the books '' . -RRB- 3 . While there is a promise that no discrimination will be made between `` Medicaid patients '' and `` paying patients '' in nursing facilities , audits of some facilities have found that there are , in fact , `` Medicaid rooms '' and regular rooms . When discovered , those facilities are supposedly ordered to make no distinction in treatment , care , or placement of patients based on their ability to pay.At this time , it is clear that there is a looming problem of how to take care of the elderly of the boomer generation as that demographic bubble passes through old age . And , though medical technology allows people to live longer , that life is not necessarily better . No solution has yet been proposed at the federal level . The problem will fall to Medicaid for now . Recent surveys have shown that only about 7-8 % of the population owns its own long-term care insurance . Some calculations indicate that Medicaid is solvent for only another 8-10 years as currently administered .
People who have very few assets and/or income should probably not get long term care insurance . If there are immediate needs that will go unmet because you are concerned about a possible long term care stay in the future , then the cost of long term care insurance may not be worth it . Also , if you may perhaps go on Medicaid in the future , even without needing long term care services , you should not purchase long term care insurance , in most situations .
Suze Orman recommends long-term care insurance , if it fits and one can medically qualify for it . She is currently taking care of her 90-year old mother who refused to letSuze buy long-term care insurance on her when she could have qualified for it . Of course , Suze has the means to keep her mother at home to the tune of about $ 25,000 / month . That 's what 24/7 skilled nursing care costs at this point in time . A facility would cost less , but mom naturally wants to stay home as long as possible . Suze is fortunate to have the means to have that happen . Ironically , Suze waited too long to apply for her own long-term care insurance . In waiting , she developed some type of medical condition that precluded her from qualifying for coverage when she did apply . In virtually all of her commentary on planning for retirement , Suze mentions the need to at least explore the financial prudence of applying for some amount of long-term care insurance . Long-term care insurance is not for everyone . But , everyone should have a plan for being taken care of during late life and insurance might be part of that plan .
The reason people buy Long Term Care Insurance is so that they have the resources to pay for home health care , assisted living care , nursing home care , or some other types of care that are needed if they are unable to take care of themselves independently . Some people with large estates get Long Term Care insurance because they do not want all their hard earned money or property go to paying a nursing home . Rates of $ 100,000 per year are not uncommon for skilled nursing care . In order to qualify for Medicaid to pay these expenses , resources must be spent down to almost nothing -LRB- if a spouse is at home , the spouse does get to keep half of the couple 's resources -RRB- . So having Long Term Care insurance to pay for these costs both helps preserve the estate and assists the spouse left at home , if applicable . One aspect of Long Term Care insurance that is not always considered is the freedom of choice that is offered to persons who carry insurance to cover chronic care expenses . If they have the right type of coverage , they can pay a relative to come live with them or choose home health care , if that works . If they must go to a nursing home , they have more choice in the facility they want to live in , versus having to go with the room arrangements or facilities that only Medicaid will cover . This is not to say that Long Term Care Insurance is for everyone . If you have very few resources and are already on Medicaid , or anticipate getting Medicaid benefits in the future , there is no need to purchase Long Term Care Insurance . And if you need to dip into grocery money , forego medical care , or lead a poor quality of life to pay for LTC insurance , that is not worth it . Consulting with agencies that can shop for these policies to get you the best rate , and also guide you through the decision whether and what to buy LTC insurance , is a great place to start .
If you have family history that has reoccurring nursing home care or home care assistance , you may need long term care insurance . If you play the morbidity odds of geriatric living , youll need long term care insurance . If you generated extended care expenses that you can not financially cover , you need long term care insurance . If you play the morbidity odds of geriatric living , youll need long term care insurance . If you generated extended care expenses that you can not financially cover , you need long term care insurance . A male and a female age 60 , nonsmoker and in good health with a full coverage and inflation rider from a quality long term care insurance company will pay around $ 300 a month for the max coverage .
My clients who are over the age of 55 pay between $ 4,000 to $ 7,000 a year . These are clients that have no other assets to exchange for an asset based long term care annuity . My other clients who have large assets will exchange them for a long term care annuity with guaranteed benefits , guaranteed growth on the principle and a guaranteed death benefit . They do not have to use the annuity for a specific long term care need . It is just another to pay for long term care without losing principle . Long term care insurance is a racket . The riders , the definitions and some companies just do n't have a good contract for those who need to pay premiums instead of exchanging assets .
In all honesty , Long Term Care Insurance is not important for everyone . If you have very few assets and low income , you may sacrifice to pay Long Term Care premiums for extended care that may or may not be needed , and that Medicaid could cover if needed . If being able to choose your own place and type of extended care is important to you , then Long Term Care Insurance is a great thing to own even with low assets , as long as you can afford to pay the premiums . Long Term Care Insurance is most important for those who have an estate to protect . If you have saved up to pass an inheritance to your loved ones , or wish to pass a business to a successor , your intentions could be jeopardized if you were to to need care for an extended period of time . Long Term Care can pay that for you and allow your estate to remain untouched .
You need long term care insurance when : 1 -RRB- You have substantial assets you want to protect , and insufficient income to pay for your own long term care expenses without depleting them ; 2 -RRB- You have enough income to comfortably pay for long term care insurance premiums and want to provide peace of mind for you and your family for your future ; 3 -RRB- You want to live in a specific place to receive your care and may not be able to do so without being able to pay privately -LRB- with the funds that long term care insurance provides -RRB- ; and/or 4 -RRB- You want to hire a relative to live with you to provide your care if you become unable to care for yourself , and probably would not have the money to do so without long term care benefits . The best age for buying long term care insurance , in my opinion , is between 50-60 years old .
end question
start question
health-insurance
Does My Health Insurance Cover Psychiatrist ?
If you are covered by a `` group plan '' then you will have some coverage . How much-call the company and ask . If you have an individual policy the coverage is going to be even more limited and you need to call the company or give your information to the insurance clerk at the doctors office and have them verify coverage . The amount of coverage available for mental health is within the bounds of the `` 90 days lifetime maximum coverage as in Medicare .
I think what you mean to ask is will health insurance cover the services provided by a psychiatrist and the answer is maybe but most likely yes . You should contact your insurer 's customer service department to get further clarification on this . You should also be very specific when it comes to discussing the type of care you are seeking . Psychiatrists mostly deal in medication management and do not often engage in psycho therapy . If you are looking for that service , you are usually looking for services from a psychologist or counselor .
Medicare has limited mental health coverage . Medicare Part A covers inpatient care , while Part B covers outpatient care . Care provided by psychologists , psychiatrists , social workers and other qualified mental health practitioners are included . Individual and family therapy is included , as is psychological testing , counseling , medication management and some prescription drugs .
I can answer on behalf of disability insurance companies Yes , disability insurance carriers to ask to look at your psychiatric and counseling records if they see that youve answered yes to seeing a counselor on your application . For anyone who says no , but something pops up on their script check , they will ask for the records at that time as well . Its common for a psychiatric release form to be included with a HIPPA in the initial application . Please note that having seen a counselor or psychiatrist does not mean that youll have a mental health exclusion , but depending on your history and the records , its a possibility .
No , Medicare does not pay for LPC 's , or Licensed Professional Counselors , at this point in time . Legislation has been proposed to include payment for LPC 's under Medicare part B . As of now , only Licensed Clinical Social Workers , PhD Psychologists , and Psychiatrists are able to be reimbursed by Medicare for persons needing counseling .
Assuming that all the cards are on the table and the agent really knows what they are doing , declines should not happen too often . But even in that case , here are some reasons people can be denied life insurance . 1 -RRB- Medical reasons that even they may not realize or think about when they talk to their agent . E.g. . The applicant takes two medications for depression , which is insurable . But when the underwriter looks at the medical records , they find that the patient has recently expressed suicidal thoughts to their psychiatrist , and the policy is denied . 2 -RRB- Insufficient medical information . E.g. . The underwriter wants to see the results of an MRI and no one can find it . 3 -RRB- Tobacco with a serious health condition that is impacted by smoking . E.g. Someone says they quit smoking when they had a heart attack a year ago , but then tobacco is found in lab results . 4 -RRB- Financial reasons . E.g. . The applicant is in the middle of bankruptcy proceedings , has a very poor credit rating , and owes back taxes . Rather than calling this a decline , it is often called a postponement . 5 -RRB- Wrong product . This is the most common reason for decline I hear about when people come to us after being declined elsewhere . They were just told to apply with a product that clearly does not work with their health and personal details . That is a completely avoidable reason for being denied . As you can see by the examples above , some people would be better off going with a No Exam policy to lessen their chances of being denied . Others are better off using medically underwritten coverage . Using an agency that specializes in taking cases declined by others can help you get an approval the first time .
In respect to life insurance , underwriters are most concerned with conditions that impair or prevent a potential insured from completing daily tasks , interactions and living . In the event that your answers to the medical questionnaire on insurance application , attending physician statement & recordsor results from a insurance examindicate that you are being treated through therapy or medication , the underwriters will first seek clarification through your agent . Depending on the severity of the condition , the course of treatment and time elapsed since last episode or event related to your condition , the underwriter may not have much concern and thus not require additional information . Simply put mild conditions such as milddepression , anxiety or stress treated by counseling and low dose medicine may not require deep underwriting depending on the age of the insured and history of condition . More significant conditions , for example schizophrenia , treated with significant medication and therapy , will require additional records from treating physicians to ensure that the insured fits within their risk parameters . In your case , grief counselingcan soundambiguous ; if it were for the loss of a loved one , the absence of whom is not preventing your daily living , it should not require additional review . If the on the other hand , it is being used to cope with another traumatic event , additional questions or requests may be posed by the underwriters . A letter from your treating psychiatrist highlighting your improvements from treatment will help mitigate the need for additional information . In order to ensure that you get the best underwriting class , I suggest that you work with an independent agent that works with multiple carriers as different carriers each have their own points of view on various healthy issues . Additionally , question your insurance agent ! Ask them what experience , if any , have they had with placing business on clients such as yourself . At the end of the day , the most experienced agents will get the best underwriting results for their clients with the least disruption and scrutiny of one 's private issues . Please feel free to contact me to discuss your facts in order to give you more accurate information .
Why buy whole life insurance ? Well I bought whole life for several reasons , maybe they apply to someone else , maybe not . Life insurance is a personal choice . I can only really tell you why I bought it over term . First , I planned on living as long as possible , term does not work if I do that . Then I like that the death benefit increased over time to help battle inflation . I liked that the cash values were mine to do with what ever I like with . I do n't have to ask permission to take money out or put money back , it is mine to decide . I like that the price is locked in . I like that the insurance company can not come back later and increase my costs . I have control . I like that when my health changed and I became uninsurable that I had policies I controlled that they could n't price me out of or change the terms of . They were mine , purchased when my health was excellent . Twenty years later , when my health went south , the policies did n't . I like that my cash values did n't count against my kids FASFA contribution count . I really like that in 2008 when my real estate , market investments all took a big dump on my portfolio , my whole life did n't go backwards in value . In fact that year it was my most profitable portfolio item . I like going to sleep at night knowing my policies will be there for my family if I do not awake , but I really like that these policies will not let me down or be subject to the extreme market ups and downs that the rest of my portfolio is . This is just a few things I can mention . There are many many more but hey it comes down to what you actually want to happen , not what somebody else tells you what you should want . If it does n't fit what you want , do n't buy it .
This is the question millions of Americans will be asking themselves over the next few months and it is a crucial one . There are many factors involved in your decision to purchase individual major medical insurance . Some crucial ones are ; 1 -RRB- Will my or my family 's expected income for 2015 fall in the range that would qualify me/us for a premium subsidy and possible cost sharing reductions for coverage purchased through the government health insurance marketplace -LRB- 100 % to 400 % of the Federal Poverty Level -RRB- ? 2 -RRB- If I do qualify for a subsidy is it enough to influence my buying decision ? Premium subsidies peak in the 250 % to 300 % of the Federal Poverty Level zone and decline rapidly from there . For example , an individual making $ 40,000 / yr would technically qualify for a subsidy but the dollar amount would be small enough that you may decide its not worth the trouble -LRB- this may be especially true in states with limited carrier choices in the government marketplace -RRB- . 3 -RRB- Are the doctors , hospitals and pharmacies I want to use in-network providers with the health plan I am considering enrolling in ? 4 -RRB- What is the coverage for prescription drugs in the plan I am considering ? Are the prescription drugs I am already taking covered by the formulary of the health plan I am considering ? And , if they are , at what level are they covered and might I be forced to revisit the steps that led me to finding the prescription medication that works for me and my health condition before my new health plan would cover them ? 4 -RRB- What coverage does the health plan I am considering offer outside of my home area ? Can I plug into a national network of providers wherever I might be or is my coverage largely restricted to my home service area ? 5 -RRB- If I am diagnosed with a serious illness like cancer will the health plan I am consider cover services from providers like M.D. Anderson , the Mayo Clinic and other nationally recognized centers of excellence ? The consumer can no longer just assume that this will be the case . While these questions do n't cover all the questions a person should ask , if you get the answer you like for the questions I 've posed you will have a much higher probability of being satisfied with the health insurance plan you select . For the vast majority of people , you will be better served to seek out the services of an experienced health insurance agent who is familiar with the insurance carriers available in your market and who can help guide you to the plan the best suits your needs whether it is inside or outside of the government health insurance marketplaces .
The definition of `` good '' varies from person to person and business to business . However , here are some of the aspects of a health insurance policy I advise my clients to be aware of and comfortable with : 1 -RRB- Are the doctors , hospitals and pharmacies you want to use in-network providers with the health insurance plan you are considering ? 2 -RRB- What would your coverage be -LRB- if any -RRB- if you want to use a health care provider who is not an in-network provider with the health insurance plan you are considering ? 3 -RRB- What is the pharmacy benefit under the health plan you are considering ? And , if you have specific prescription drug needs are they covered under the health insurance plan 's prescription formulary and to what extent are they covered -LRB- copays , co-insurance , deductible & co-insurance -RRB- ? 4 -RRB- Does the health insurance plan allow its members to go directly to specialists such as cardiologists or does it require that you are referred to a specialist by your primary care physician first ? 5 -RRB- If you travel regularly outside of your home area -LRB- to other states or outside the USA -RRB- does the health plan provide for coverage outside of your home service area in the event you need non-emergency care ? 6 -RRB- Is the health insurance company you are considering a well established national or regional health insurance carrier with strong finances or is it one of the new , experimental Co-Op health plans recently established under the provisions of ObamaCare ? 7 -RRB- Does the overall value proposition of the health insurance plan you are considering meet your current and anticipated needs ? In other words , does its monthly premium , coverage levels and provider network really work for you .
This is an outstanding question ! It goes to the heart of how best to protect your family , and sort through all of the choices out there . It can be scary trying to figure out who has the ` best deal ' and since most people do n't understand a lot about insurance , how not to get taken . I think it is fair to say also that people do n't have a high opinion of insurance to begin with , so agents are n't seemingly much better . So why not just choose a policy from an on-line company or name brand company ? Here 's what I 'd say to you . I have always done business as much by my feel for the person as by their product . If my server does n't care about me or my meal , I do n't go back to the restaurant , or I only order carryout from them . If a bagger at the grocery store just throws my groceries haphazardly into the bags , I 'll look for a different line every time . I want to know that the person I 'm dealing with cares about me , and my business . I also want to know that I have some flexibility - if they 're the only bagger or server , I wo n't go back to those places . An independent agent can offer more options than a name brand office agent would . The name brand can only offer that companies policies , and prices . If their policy is the best one , and I feel the agent truly cares about me and my needs , I 'll buy from them . Chances are though , I 've met with at least one other independent agent -LRB- one not tied to a single brand name - I myself work with several -RRB- to shop prices and coverage before deciding . Again , how they presented themselves to me as they worked for my business was as much a consideration for me as the policy details . If I did n't feel like they cared about anything but the sale , I 'd leave , and thank them for their time . When the time comes that I need help -LRB- and it inevitably does -RRB- I want someone who cares and jumps to help , not someone who has to hunt to figure out who I am . i guess for me , I want a relationship with my business people , -LRB- and my clients -RRB- not just a transaction . I hope that helps you , and I thank you for asking !
As someone who has owned a life insurance policy since age 19 let me express it this way . You need life insurance if there is somebody in your life who will have to pick up your mess and settle your affairs . At 19 , the purchase of life insurance made perfect sense to me as I had a mom and a dad and if something happened to me , It would fall upon them to take care of my loose ends , arrange my service and maybe need some time off . This was long before I entered the insurance world as an agent . It just seemed to me , if I had died , it made sense to help my parents with the cost of dealing with my death . I figured my death was bad enough for them to deal with , my bills , my apartment and my service would just be piling on to a bad situation . So this is how I look at this situation `` does everybody need life insurance ? '' No , they do n't , but I feel sad for the person who has no need for coverage as it means there 's nobody that matters in their life enough to protect from their passing from it .
Is life insurance necessary for a single person ? I will answer based on my reasons for having life insurance when I was a single person , it is up to the reader to decide if that is a good reason or not . As a single person , I still had a mom , and had I died , it would fall upon mom to clean up my stuff . In no particular order the reasons for owning life insurance at that point in time in my life . I just died , I 'm sure that 's a whammy to my mom . I just died without life insurance sorry for the `` double whammy '' mom . My service ? Mom , I 'm sure you can borrow the money to bury me . Or tap your retirement plan or home equity ... My debts ? Well I 'm sure you do n't mind the calls and letters or even that college loan you cosigned for me paying it back after I just died . Time off your work mom ? I 'm sure if I die on a Saturday , you 'll be back at work on Mondaylike nothing happened and certainly your bills are paid well enough in advance that you can take unpaid time off to grieve . My dog , mom . Here 's my dog . take care of him for me will ya ? If I have n't listed enough reasons for a single person to consider the need for life insurance , well I guess I did it for dumb reasons . It could be your mom , dad , brother , sister or a good friend , why buy life insurance as a single person ? Cause you care enough about the people who care enough about you . For me , it was my mom . Now it 's my wife and kids . They actually would hate to lose me , I actually would hate to put a burden on their shoulders when I die , tomorrow or 50 years from now .
First , let me say I am not an accountant or tax expert at all . This questions would be best answered by a Certified Public Account or other tax pro . I can only speak to my personal situation . For years we did n't have a group plan through my company and I had individual/familycoverage that I paid for out of pocket . I also have family members who have some health issues that included specialists , a lot of RX drugs , etc. . Simply due to the cost of the health coverage , we had to go with a high deductible health plan as well . So , over the course of a year we would have our health premiums , high deductibles , plus a bunch of specialist costs that were not even covered by our insurance . This generated a ton of dollars that came out of my pocket personally . There is a threshold for medical expences -LRB- I do n't remember what it is -RRB- where anything over an above that figure is deductible on your tax return . I have been well over that figure every year for the last 5 or 6 , so I have been able to deduct a good amount of my out of pocket expence . This is just my personal situation and again , I am not a tax professional of any sort . All this was done on the advice of my personal accountant . I would highly recomend you contact a tax professional and discuss your individual situation with them .
Why do people buy whole life insurance ? Well , I can give you reasons I did . I simply liked what it does . I locked in a life time rate in a policy that grows over time and builds up cash values that I can get to really easily and I do n't have to ask permission from anybody to do so . I like that I own the policy , I control the policy . I like that as an investment it is dull , boring and does it job of a reasonable return at a minimal risk situation . I like after all my health changes -LRB- type II , A Fib -RRB- that I do not have to seek out life insurance again because I have mine , locked in for my life . I like how in 2008 when I lost ten years of growth off my investments and my home value dipped too , that my life insurance kept cooking along as if nothing happened . I like that something I have ca n't go backwards . I figured out a long time ago , whole life insurance is the most risky thing an insurance company can sell for an insurance company , that is why it is priced the way it is . Think about this if you were an insurance company and price based on risk to the company , would the things that could really cost you , do you charge a little or a lot ? This is also why a good disability policy is n't cheap either .
The answer to your question has many parts to the final answer . Let 's assume I just got married and my phone has been ringing incessantly with insurance agents pedaling their life insurance policies . My wife and I know it just makes good sense to have life insurance-my policy covering her and vice versa . The question is given my occupation and I do not want her to work how do I plan `` how much '' life insurance ? My employer can provide $ 50,000 for me and I am not taxed as long as I stay at or below $ 50,000 . So from a cost standpoint that $ 50,000 is a given . I hope to have two children to keep my wife happy and raising kids . We know it takes a huge amount to just raise the kids much less educate them . We also know if I am smart at some point in my life I will be smart to have saved enough money to get out of the life insurance market and have savings to pay any funeral costs that may arise . So on today 's date I know my `` insurance needs '' is at the highest point it will ever be assuming the two children are born and then we can avoid the `` steamy ` Saturday and be careless and now the third is here . So if I assume the first child will be born in two years that means in year 20 I have to have `` college expense '' funds '' . Is it a better investment to use life insurance or it better to open a mutual fund aggressive growth and invest a $ 100 pewr month for the next 20 years ? Let 's assume the second child in born in our fourth year of marriage . Now the same decision outlined above is with me again . What is often overlooked is the assumption is I will remain healthy and my income will increase each year . What happens if I become ill and diabled for two years ? What disablity insurance plans do I have ? Do they cover my `` own occupation '' or if I can flip hamburgers I am not considered disabled . In order to make an informed decisions you have to consider all the options . Is it best for me to take a Gerber Life insurance policy on each child for $ 20,000 , which then doubles , at their age 18 ? If I am confident that I can save sufficiently for the next 30 years I may decide to take a $ 1,000,000 30 year term policy but if I am not confident of my ability to save then I am sure going to use the `` dollar cost averging '' advantages of having a `` cash value '' policy and a mutual fund in the aggressive growth and invest $ 100 per month . I ho ; pe this helps you to see the complexity of your question .
That is a great question ! The answer will depend upon your company , and the policy restrictions . It may cover for a specified number of days , it may cover until the repairs to your vehicle are completed . A couple of years ago my car was hit , and the driver at faults insurance covered my rental car . After a week , they notified me that they were no longer going to cover the rental car , and it would be my expense . My car was n't finished , and the insurance company had not been in a hurry to see it get finished . After discussing the situation with them , they agreed to pay until my car was completed . They were n't happy , but were liable . If you would like some details on that discussion , contact me , and I 'll share them with you . Thanks for asking !
In an aggregate sense , Yes . The basic costs of health care -LRB- doctor & hospital services , prescription drugs , etc. -RRB- and our population 's consumption of health care services have been steadily increasing for decades . Health insurance costs are merely a reflection of these underlying factors . When one drills down to a specific company 's or a specific individual 's history with their health insurance premiums then you will find substantial variations in individual results . A knowledgeable and experienced health insurance broker/consultant can often manage their client 's benefits costs in ways that `` beat the market '' just like there always are some financial experts who outperform their peers in the stock market . The vast majority of my small business clients for instance have premium costs and benefit levels in 2014 that are not radical departures from their costs of a few to several years ago or , at the worst , they know that they have the best possible base cost level currently available to them in their marketplaces . This requires constant oversight of changing marketplace conditions , switching insurance carriers to take advantage of whichever carrier has the best value proposition at that particular time , and some fine tuning of benefit plan designs and funding approaches over a period of years to accomplish these results . But , it can be done because I have done it . The implementation of the new requirements of ObamaCare have upset the long established rules for the health insurance marketplace and are having a profound impact on health insurance plan designs and costs . ObamaCare addressed many access issues to health insurance coverage -LRB- guaranteed issue of policies , no pre-existing conditions , etc. -RRB- but really does nothing to reduce either healthcare costs or consumption . In fact , many can argue that ObamaCare is helping to increase both costs and consumption which will translate into higher health insurance costs . Certainly ObamaCare is the most profound change in our nation 's health insurance system in most people 's lifetimes and it will make the years ahead much more challenging for both individuals and businesses when it comes to managing their health insurance & health care costs . The guidance of an experienced health insurance expert who is staying on top of the rapid changes being prompted by ObamaCare is now more important than ever to both the individual and business health insurance consumer . If I can be of assistance in guiding you through these uncharted waters please feel free to contact me so I can put my 30 years of experience to work for you .
That is a great question ! The terms used in life insurance policies can be confusing . There are three entities in a policy - the owner , the insured , and the beneficiary . The easiest one is the beneficiary - the person or entity -LRB- trust , estate , etc. -RRB- that receives the benefits from the policy . They receive these benefits when the insured passes away . The insured is the person whose need was the reason for the policy . Here 's where it can be confusing . The owner is the person who has legal rights to the policy on the insured . That legal title gives them right to change some of the moving parts of the policy , including the beneficiary . In many cases , the owner and the insured are the same person . I buy a policy on my own life . I am the owner and the insured , and I name my wife as my beneficiary . I retain the option to change the beneficiary -LRB- should she pass first God forbid -RRB- and the right to use the cash value within the policy . If I bought a policy for my children , I would own the policy , but my child would be the insured , and my wife and I the beneficiaries . I can transfer that ownership to my child once they are able to make the payments , and manage the policy successfully . Once they own the policy , they are free to change the beneficiary to whomever they choose -LRB- their wife or child , say -RRB- . Hopefully that clears things up for you . If it does n't please feel free to contact me , and I 'll walk you through it some more . Thank you for asking !
My parents applied for Long Term Care Insurance many years ago , and my mother was able to qualify for it , but my father was not . My father 's declined over these many years , and toward the end , it was a worry whether my mom could continue to care for him or not . Thankfully , she was , but it was a difficult situation , to say the least . Now my mom has long term care insurance and you can tell it brings her peace . Even though she does not have anyone at home to care for her , like she did for Dad , she will have the funds to do what she needs to do if she can not care for herself . This personal experience has made it more real to me that , if you are not close to qualifying for Medicaid , you should probably have Long Term Care Insurance .
end question
start question
health-insurance
Who Owns Medica Health Insurance ?
Medica started in 1975 by a group of physicians for the purpose of becoming a Physicians Health Plan . They offer coverage in Minnesota and select counties in Wisconsin , North Dakota and South Dakota . According to Medica , `` It was the first open-access health plan in the state . In 1991 , PHP merged with Share to become Medica . And in 1994 , Medica merged with HealthSpan to form Allina Health System , an integrated organization offering both health care coverage and medical services . Medica became an independent health plan in 2001 '' . In 2010 , Medica reported $ 4 Billion in revenue and that `` 90 % of fully insured premium revenue was used to pay for health care expenses '' . Medica states that over 96 % of Minnesota 's providers participate in the program and they offer a large national network of over 660,000 providers and 5,100 hospitals to it 's members . Resources : Medica.com
Medica started in 1975 by a group of physicians for the purpose of becoming a Physicians Health Plan . They offer coverage in Minnesota and select counties in Wisconsin , North Dakota and South Dakota . According to Medica , `` It was the first open-access health plan in the state . In 1991 , PHP merged with Share to become Medica . And in 1994 , Medica merged with HealthSpan to form Allina Health System , an integrated organization offering both health care coverage and medical services . Medica became an independent health plan in 2001 '' . In 2010 , Medica reported $ 4 Billion in revenue and that `` 90 % of fully insured premium revenue was used to pay for health care expenses '' . Medica states that over 96 % of Minnesota 's providers participate in the program and they offer a large national network of over 660,000 providers and 5,100 hospitals to it 's members . Resources : Medica.com
There is no single `` best '' Medicare gap insurance plan . If you find a plan that covers everything you need , and it is affordable , then that is the best plan for you . Medicare gap insurance rates vary significantly by zip code , age , tobacco use and plan . Tobacco use often adds 20 % to the rate but can be more , depending on the carrier . The most popular Medicae gap insurance plan is Plan F . It is also the most expensive . There is no reason to pay more for the same plan . When you do so you are simply throwing your money away . #GeorgiaMedicarePlans
This is a very pertinent question in the era of ObamaCare . As the term `` portability '' implies , this is the ability for a person to own and take their health insurance coverage with them regardless of their employment circumstances . The concern about portability of health insurance coverage flows from the history in our nation where for many decades most working Americans received their health insurance coverage through their employer . In an era where many people would work for the same company for most , if not all , of their working life , there was little concern about losing access to health insurance coverage . As our global economy and the American workforce have evolved over the last generation and it is now common for a person to work for multiple companies over the course of their working lives and having your health insurance tied to your place of employment has become more problematic for some people and become a social , business and political issue . A common example is the person who works for a company that provides health insurance benefits to its employees and this person has a pre-existing health condition like diabetes or has a covered dependent with a chronic health problem requiring expensive ongoing care that is covered by their current employer 's health plan . One day this employee may be presented with a job opportunity with another company that offers them a promotion and an increase in pay that would further their career but this prospective new employer does not offer health insurance to its employees . Losing their current employer 's health coverage might have left this person or their dependents uninsurable or faced with such high out-of-pocket expenses for individual health insurance and out-of-pocket expenses that these factors would negate the new job opportunity being offered this person . Similar examples can be given for the person who wants to leave and start their own business , medical cost issues have made it difficult , if not impossible , for some people to pursue such opportunities . This is what is referred to as `` Job Lock '' . One of the positive aspects of ObamaCare is that with its guaranteed issue and no pre-existing conditions exclusions or coverage waiting period requirements , people are guaranteed access to individual or small group health insurance . Technically , this does break the chains of `` job lock '' for such persons . Please note though , that I stressed the changes made by ObamaCare have removed barriers to access to health insurance . Depending upon the income level of the person , it -LRB- ObamaCare -RRB- may or may not remove the cost barriers associated with getting health insurance due to the resulting increases in health insurance rates we have seen and are seeing . But , in the ideal scenario , these new provisions of the health law provide persons with the security of owning their own health insurance coverage that is not tied to their place of employment thus eliminating concerns about `` job lock '' and freeing them to pursue other professional or personal goals that they might not have otherwise been able to address .
Who should own a life policy depends on facts and circumstances surrounding the purpose of the insurance . Often the owner is the insured and names a spouse the beneficiary . Life insurance purchasers are required to have an insurable interest in the life of the insured . Insurable interest generally must exist at policy inception . The underlying principle is that a purchaser must have a reasonable expectation of profit or benefit from the continued life of the insured . You have no limit on insuring your own life so you can name anyone as the beneficiary of your own policy . When you take out a policy on the life of another , there are limits on who can own the policy : 1 . Family members related by blood or marriage have an insurable interest in each other e.g. Parent/child and child by adoption , siblings , spouse , grandparents/grandchildren , and in some states , engaged couples . There is generally no insurable interest in nieces/nephews , cousins , aunts/uncles , other relative by marriage or stepparents/stepchildren . 2 . Creditors have insurable interest in a debtor to the extent of the debt . 3 . Business relationships which give rise to a financial dependency : an employee can insure an employer or vise versa . Partners can insured each other . Key employees can be insured by their employer . So , for example , two cousins who would otherwise not have an insurable interest , jointly own a business and therefore have an insurable interest in the other . The life insured always needs to consent with their signature and would need to consent by signature to the release and use of their medical information in the underwriting process for underwritten policies .
In general , no , not for physical damage to the car . To insure property you need to have an insurable interest in the property you 're protecting . In other words , you have to have something at risk . If you do n't own it , what do you have at risk ? This why titling is so important . You could , theoretically , put insurance on a car you do n't own and not tell the insurance company that it 's not titled to you . Hopefully , your insurance agent is experienced and professional enough to ask who the car is titled to , but it does n't always happen . So , say you 've insured this car you do n't own and you get into an accident . You submit your claim to your insurance company to get your car repaired . One of the first questions a claims adjuster will ask is `` who is the car titled to ? '' . If the answer is n't you , you 've got a problem . The insurance company will only pay the registered owner of the car . They are the only party that has a loss . The only exception to this is if the car is financed or leased . In this case , the finance company will require , as part of the contract , to be listed as a loss payee . This entitles them to collect on the damage to that car . That 's how it applies to physical damage . For liability or injury , it 's different . Here , the insurance follows the insured . You could , theoretically , get liability insurance without owning the car you 're driving . Again , your agent will ask who owns the car , and they 'll believe what you tell them . If a claim happens for injury or liability , they will protect you , the insured . I do n't know why you 'd want to insure a car you do n't own , but I have an idea . It could be that a friend or relative is loaning you a car because you do n't have one of your own or it could be that a child , or someone else in your household owns this car but does n't want to , or ca n't , insure it themselves because they 're young and it 's expensive , or they have such a bad driving record they just plain ca n't get insurance . Either way , do n't get yourself in a situation where you have to lie to your insurance company or agent . If something happens , the truth will come out and you may not get anything out of it anyway . Be smart . Find an agent you can trust and be truthful with him/her . They 'll tell you the right way to do it so that you do n't put yourself or your family at risk .
It seems that your father bought an insurance policy for the purpose of you to have a policy of your own when you are no longer dependent under him . The decision will rely on who bought the policy and who was designated to pay for the policy which should have been your father since he opened up the policy . On the application will ask who is owner of policy and who will pay the premium . In insurance dependents are children of parents 25 and under . When a policy is taken out on child by a parent they receive lower rates , or even a rider which is an additional form that will cover all child dependents no matter the number until the age 25 . Once at that age they can become insured on their own policy at a guaranteed issue no matter what . In your case , you was not owner of policy , and you did not take over the policy . You dad owned the policy since he was the pay or even if the policy was written on you . You should have officially signed applications to own the policy , and it turned over to you . So , if not they have no course for action , since , you did not own the policy . You owe them nothing and you may cancel unless you voluntarily took over ownership . You may still cancel the policy anytime you desire . It also seems you have no beneficiaries . Also he may have taken the policy out on you in order to insure you in the event something happens to you which will relieve the financial burden upon the family .
I would like to add my two cents to this question , as Im not sure a couple of situations have been covered . But the question is Can I insure a car I dont own . If you own and insure a car , your own policy should extend your coverage to any car you are driving -LRB- borrowed , temporary substitute or short-term rental -RRB- as long as it is not another car you own or regularly use . In that sense , your policy then insures you driving a car you dont own . If you dont own a car but often drive cars you dont own and want to make sure you are adequately covered , you should be able to purchase a form of Drive Other Car coverage . Its common to see this coverage on business auto policies covering the business owner and family members when the business owner doesnt own a personal car but is provided vehicles by the company . Here again you are in a sense insuring a car you dont own . In my practice , I like to make sure every client has access to an automobile insuring agreement , as a named insured on a policy covering an owned car , as a spouse or family member residing in the household or some form of Drive Other Car coverage . I like to see adequate limits , comprehensive and collision and appropriate uninsured/underinsured coverage . No responsible adult should be without some form of auto insurance coverage ; as an owner , operator , passenger or pedestrian .
Very carefully . Shopping for health insurance has never been particularly easy for the average person and with the implementation of the Affordable Care Act it is more complicated than ever and the consequences of making a bad decision or no decision can have significant financial implications . Web sites , whether they are Healthcare.gov or insurance agent or insurance carrier based can only go so far . Buying health insurance is n't like buying a hotel room online , as a lot of people who enrolled themselves through Healthcare.gov have painfully learned . The bottom line is that you should seek out an experienced health insurance agent who represents multiple health insurance carriers and who is certified to sell coverage through Healthcare.gov or your state 's health insurance marketplace . You can no longer assume that your doctor is available as an in-network provider with every health insurance plan offered by a health insurance company that you think you are familiar with . For instance , here in Tennessee the Blue Cross/Blue Shield plan offers identical looking health plans through Healthcare.gov with three different PPO networks each of which has a different price point . The lower the monthly premium gets the narrower the provider network gets . Human nature is to gravitate towards the lowest cost plan if the benefits look the same and that 's fine until you find out your long time doctor does n't participate in that product 's network . In the world of ObamaCare once you 've enrolled and the open enrollment period has closed you are stuck with your plan selection until next year 's open enrollment . If you are using specific prescription medications you really need to do your homework there and that 's where having professional guidance is so crucial . You should verify if your medication is covered in the prescription formulary of any health insurance carrier you are considering . Then , if it is covered , at what tier level in the pharmacy coverage is it covered ? Will the insurance carrier require you to get reauthorized to continue using that medication or require you to reinvent the wheel and go through what is referred to as step therapy where you may have to try to use other , less expensive medications to treat your condition before you are allowed to continue using your current medication ? These are all real possibilities and I have n't come across an individual consumer yet who figured these things out on their own . What coverage does the insurance plan you are considering offer if you want to go outside of their network ? Some health insurance brands you may have been familiar with in the past have totally reworked their individual insurance products so as to provide little or no out-of-network coverage . What is the health insurance plan 's policy on access to facilities such as M.D. Anderson , the Mayo Clinic and other such nationally prominent specialty health care providers ? You should not assume that all health plans will allow access to such facilities . If you have a chronic health problem or have had a family history of health issues where access to such facilities might be important to you , it 's better to figure that out in advance . THIS ANSWER WAS PROVIDED BY : Marlin McKelvy , a Chartered Benefits Consultant with 30 years of industry experience and a web site at www.cdbsagency.com but who is committed to providing personalized advice and guidance because an informed client is a happy client .
Let me add one other use for Non Owned liability coverage . You work in an occupation where the owner of the business is also the owner of the vehicle you use on a regular basis . Non owned vehicle coverage can play an important role in protecting you . Keep in mind that your employer buys coverage to protect his/her interest not yours . If you own an auto , and are faced with an employer providing basic coverage then it is called Extended Non Owned Liability coverage . If you do not own any car then it is referred to as Non Owned Liability Coverage -LRB- not Extended at that point -RRB- Non owned coverage can be a very valuable way of protecting you , your family or guest passengers in your car . Most large employers are not concerned with Uninsured Motorist or Underinsured Motorist Coverage . But you should be . In about 14 % of all wrecks the adverse driver who causes the wreck will have no insurance . so now you need the protection of uninsured and under insured motorist coverage which is not something your employer worries about -LRB- its your life not his or hers -RRB- so , be sure you buy a non owned liability policy in these circumstances and match the UM and UIM limits with your liability limit of coverage
Your question is a common one these days . It may be a subtle distinction but I 'm a firm believer in being clear on our terminology . Many employers and employees think that the Affordable Care Act -LRB- ObamaCare -RRB- legally requires employers to provide health insurance to their employees . This is not the case . In fact , ObamaCare may possibly have the result of reducing the number of employers who provide health insurance for their employees . Only time will tell on this issue . What the Affordable Care Act does is provide a mixture of incentives and penalties to employers regarding their choice as to whether to offer group health insurance to their employees . At the current time you need to subdivide the employer marketplace into three different segments and understand how the law applies to each one in the coming years . 1 -RRB- The small group market -LRB- 2 to 49 employees -RRB- - for companies of this size there is a possible incentive in the form of a tax credit to encourage employers to offer health insurance to their employees . THERE ARE NO TAX PENALTIES FOR EMPLOYERS IN THIS SIZE RANGE WHO DO NOT OFFER GROUP HEALTH INSURANCE TO THEIR EMPLOYEES . As with many aspects of the Affordable Care Act , even the availability and value of the tax credit is confusing and ends up being of little or no value to most small employers . First , the employer will have to purchase group health coverage through the SHOP program of the government health marketplace in their state in order to qualify for the tax credit of 50 % of what the employer contributes towards employee coverage . This may significantly reduce the employer 's options . For instance , here in Tennessee , only one group health insurance carrier has chosen to participate in the SHOP program in 2014 . So your choice is Blue Cross/Blue Shield in that case . The employer may find significantly less expensive group plan options from other insurance companies outside of the SHOP program . Next , the tax credit really only applies to groups of up to 24 employees and actually maxes out for groups with 10 or fewer employees , plus your average workforce wage has to be below $ 50,000 / year . And , the tax credit can only be claimed for two consecutive tax years . For these reasons the tax `` incentives '' provide little real incentive for most small employers to use the SHOP program and the SHOP program has done little to increase competition in most states . 2 -RRB- Groups with 50 to 99 employees - originally groups in this size range were to be subject to the Employer Mandate on January 1 , 2014 . However , the Obama administration delayed implementation of the employer mandate for groups of this size until January 1 , 2016 . So , while there are some issues employers in this size range need to be aware of and planning for , in most ways the status quo remains unchanged for employers in this size range . 3 -RRB- Employers with 100 or more Full Time/Full Time Equivalent employees - for employers who fall into this category the Employer Mandate provision was delayed only until January 1 , 2015 . After that date employers in this size range who offer no health insurance to their employees will be subject to a tax penalty of $ 2000 per employee if at least one of their employees purchases individual health insurance through the government health insurance marketplace and receives a premium tax subsidy . A second tax penalty situation is created for employers who offer health insurance to their employees which is deemed unaffordable under the terms of the Affordable Care Act -LRB- the cost to the employee must exceed 9.5 % of their W2 income -RRB- . In this circumstance the employer is subject to a tax penalty of $ 3000 for each employee who enrolls for individual coverage in the government health insurance marketplace and receives a premium tax subsidy . To make the tax penalties a bit more punitive , they will not be a deductible business expense . At first glance these potential tax penalties might appear to many to be a strong incentive for larger employers to provide health insurance to their employees . But , in practical terms , the tax penalties are often far less expensive than providing group health insurance especially in light of the additional coverage requirements of the Affordable Care Act that are driving health insurance rates up even further . So , no employer has to provide health insurance to their employees . And for larger employers it is simply a decision as to whether to bear the cost of providing group health insurance or paying a tax penalty .
Generally Bank owned life insurance is designed to protect the bank if you take out a loan . I usually recommend buying your own policy . It gives your beneficiary more options . For example , mortgage insurance is usually offered by a bank . It can also be purchased on your own . Both would pay off the mortgage if you die . With the bank owned policy , that is the only choice . What if your spouse does n't want or need to pay off the mortgage however . This is not always the best option . If you own the policy , your wife or beneficiary may choose to invest the life insurance funds and use the interest to help make mortgage payments . Or the money would be more advantageous elsewhere . Mortgage life insurance with the bank is tied to that mortgage . What if you move ? Owning your own policy is portable , you can take it with you to your new home . I usually recommend level term to cover a mortgage . That way you have extra protection as your mortgage decreases because the death benefit will stay level . With a banks mortgage life insurance it just pays off the mortgage to the bank on that loan . Yes it works , but you are better off with your own policy .
YES , in the aggregate sense . Perhaps for some individuals or groups their particular situation will allow them to benefit from the changes in rating methods and benefits required by the Affordable Care Act . But for most individuals and groups I am entirely comfortable in predicting higher health insurance costs . First of all , the underlying cost of health care services continues to rise . As these costs rise the cost of insuring these services must rise accordingly , this has been the case throughout my 30 years in the health insurance industry . Secondly , we are beginning to get a picture of what the enrollment composition in the individual health insurance marketplaces is looking like . As predicted by many industry professionals , the enrollment is skewing towards an older and sicker population with the highly desired young and healthy population largely remaining on the sidelines . Just today one of nation 's largest pharmacy management companies reported their preliminary analysis of the prescription utilization of marketplace enrollees vs their pre-health care reform population . Usage of expensive prescription medications for serious chronic health problems is 47 % higher , and this is just based on a couple of months of utilization data ! While some hold out the hope that the people who waited until the last moment to enroll were disproportionately young and healthy , my own experience enrolling people gives little indication that this was the case . So , the table has been set for adverse selection -LRB- more sick than healthy enrollees -RRB- in the health insurance pool , especially for the insurance carriers who elected to participate in the government health insurance marketplaces . This can not help but translate into higher health insurance costs for 2015 and in many areas of the country this will translate into very significant double digit increases in individual and small group health insurance . This has already been broadly hinted at by all the major health insurance carriers , it 's really not a question of `` if '' but just `` how much '' .
I love CPA 's . They give great accounting advice and some of them even know other things . But the `` minimum limits '' advice defies his training in some important ways . What your son lacks in `` assets '' he more than makes up for in terms of `` potential '' . What I mean here is that he may not have it now , but due to his young age , he 'll have a long time to earn and pay . Even though he is only 18 does not mean that he can not be responsible for an injury or death , or damage to property , and be subjected to an order of the court to garnishee his wage to make reimbursement to those who were injured , killed , or had property damaged . Now , should have have his own insurance ? Assuming he owns the car , he probably needs his own insurance . Staying in the household under household coverage is also OK but some insurers concern themselves with the owner of the car being different than the insured on the policy so proceed with caution when the vehicle is not actually owned by the policyholder . As a practical matter , the discounts that you might enjoy are lost to the child in many cases when they have their own policy . Some companies will extend multi-policy discounts to children of the policy owner . Some discounts do n't come through this connection , however . I like kids learning the responsibility of maintaining their own insurance . It gets the loss off the parents record , for one . Parents can help subsidize the cost if they want and help provide this as a reward for good outcomes on something else . All things said and done , I like responsible children on their own policies but deal with young drivers both on and off the parents policies so it comes down to personal preference and whether you are dealing with issues that poison the whole policy because of the young driver , or not , in many cases .
A private health insurance exchange is a private sector counterpart to the Federal Government run or state run health insurance exchanges created as a centerpiece of ObamaCare . A private health insurance exchange or marketplace as is now the preferred term , is generally going to be an employer based program that offers multiple health insurance plan options to its employees . There are variations on the private health insurance marketplace theme . Some are built around the offering of individual health insurance plans from one or a number of different health insurance carriers . Others are built around one group insurance carrier that offers a variety of different plan designs at varying price points for employees to choose from . Still some others are large enough that more than one group health insurance carrier is electing to participate and offer a selection of health insurance plans , so in this last example you could have plans from Humana , United Healthcare and CIGNA all being offered alongside each other thus giving employees an even broader selection of plan designs and perhaps provider networks to choose from . In some cases there can be integration between a private exchanges and the government based exchanges . This is most commonly found in private exchanges built around offering individual health insurance plans . This can then allow for employees who would qualify for subsidies through the government health insurance exchanges to enroll in those plans while employees who do not qualify for subsidies can enroll in health insurance plans offered outside of the government exchanges . Another advantage that private exchanges can have over their government based counterparts is that they can offer a wide array of other employee or individual insurance options such as dental , vision , life , disability , critical illness , cancer and accident insurance . Some private exchanges can even extend the one stop shopping concept to auto , homeowners and other property & casualty based insurance products.The government health marketplaces are currently limited to health insurance and some dental insurance options . If you are interested in learning about whether a private health insurance exchange might be the right solution for your employee benefit needs please feel free to contact me .
Why would you buy whole life ? Here 's why I bought it . I wanted lifetime coverage as I do n't think I would die in 10,20 or 30 years . I was young enough to purchase a fair amount of coverage because I was in good health and purchased it at a locked in price . A price that they ca n't come back and raise on me . The WL offered reasonable safe growth , certainty that allowed me to take more risk with my other investment choices . My whole life became `` if I screw everything else up , this wo n't let me down . '' My safety net . After 20 plus years of ownership , whole life has done what it promised me , been there when I needed it and did n't go backwards in 2008 when ten years returns were wiped off my mutual fund accounts and my home value dropped 40 % . My boring steady unexciting whole life remained faithful to me . Now in my 50 's as a type II diabetic who just had his heart rebooted -LRB- cardioversion -RRB- because of A FIB , I really really appreciate the fact I `` OWN '' my policy . They ca n't raise the price , they ca n't end it . I did n't rent it , I OWN it . Maybe some readers will get how important that is . For all the financial gurus who may have said this was a bad idea , I have to ask why are so many people in their 60 's seeking new insurance ? Could it be they listened to the wrong people when they were younger and healthier ? There are a ton of reasons to own whole life , there is . All I can say is it is the most boring product you can buy . It will do what it 's supposed to , without fanfare or up and down excitement . It 's the most boring financial product you can `` OWN '' . I hope that makes sense to some who read these posts .
Under certain conditions , Medicare Part A will cover intermittent or part-time home health care provided by a skilled nurse . Again , Medicares requirements for receiving home care are quite strict . Medicare will pay for home health care to treat an illness or injury only if a person meetsallof the following requirements : - A doctor must determine that medical care is needed at home and must make a plan for such care . - The person needs intermittent skilled nursing care , physical therapy , speech therapy , or occupational therapy . - The person is homebound , which means generally unable to leave home -LRB- when a person leaves , it must be infrequent and for a short time only , such as to go to a doctors appointment -RRB- . - The home health care agency must be Medicare-approved . Keep in mind that unlike Medicares nursing home benefit , a person does not need to be admitted to a hospital first in order to qualify for Medicare home health care . In addition , services will be provided on an intermittent or part-time basis only by a visiting nurse , therapist , or home health aide . Medicares home health care benefit does not pay for 24-hour full-time care . Medicare generally limits its home health care benefit because the program is only designed to serve individuals who need intermittent care for a relatively short period of time rather than care on a daily basis . Once a person is receiving Medicare home health care , his or her plan of care will be reviewed at least every 60 days . If the persons health changes and care is no longer needed , the home health agency will notify the individuals doctor , who must then contact Medicare . From that point , home care will no longer be covered by Medicare . The Medicare home health care benefit will not pay for homemaker services such as housekeeping , shopping , and cleaning . It also does not pay for custodial carethat is , help with meeting daily personal needs such as bathing , toileting , transferring , or eating . Because most people who need long-term care need custodial care , financial practitioners should point out this shortcoming to clients . Many people who do qualify for Medicare home health care benefits still need to pay for additional custodial care in order to live comfortably and independently at home .
Under certain conditions , Medicare Part A will cover intermittent or part-time home health care provided by a skilled nurse . Again , Medicares requirements for receiving home care are quite strict . Medicare will pay for home health care to treat an illness or injury only if a person meetsallof the following requirements : A doctor must determine that medical care is needed at home and must make a plan for such care . The person needs intermittent skilled nursing care , physical therapy , speech therapy , or occupational therapy . The person is homebound , which means generally unable to leave home -LRB- when a person leaves , it must be infrequent and for a short time only , such as to go to a doctors appointment -RRB- . The home health care agency must be Medicare-approved . Keep in mind that unlike Medicares nursing home benefit , a person does not need to be admitted to a hospital first in order to qualify for Medicare home health care . In addition , services will be provided on an intermittent or part-time basis only by a visiting nurse , therapist , or home health aide . Medicares home health care benefit does not pay for 24-hour full-time care . Medicare generally limits its home health care benefit because the program is only designed to serve individuals who need intermittent care for a relatively short period of time rather than care on a daily basis . Once a person is receiving Medicare home health care , his or her plan of care will be reviewed at least every 60 days . If the persons health changes and care is no longer needed , the home health agency will notify the individuals doctor , who must then contact Medicare . From that point , home care will no longer be covered by Medicare . The Medicare home health care benefit will not pay for homemaker services such as housekeeping , shopping , and cleaning . It also does not pay for custodial carethat is , help with meeting daily personal needs such as bathing , toileting , transferring , or eating . Because most people who need long-term care need custodial care , financial practitioners should point out this shortcoming to clients . Many people who do qualify for Medicare home health care benefits still need to pay for additional custodial care in order to live comfortably and independently at home .
OK , I feel compelled to add a little bit more to what I perceive as some good answers here . There are some very good reasons to buy Extended Non owned Coverage or Non Owned Coverage if you are using a company car . Yes the employer who owns the car is going to typically have it well insured for liability -LRB- their business is at stake -RRB- . Your welfare , life and future income is not particularly pressing to your employer have your owned extended non owned liability and Uninsured Motorist protection
Car insurance works differently than health insurance . There is no magical age or employment status that drives your children 's ability to ` be on ' your auto policy . If your child owns their own vehicle , then really that becomes the point at which they should have their own policy . To complicate things , if they still live with you then they must be listed as a driver on your policy as well -LRB- you would also have to be listed as a driver on their policy -RRB- . If they have moved out of the nest and do not have a vehicle , they can still be listed as a driver if they are regularly furnished one of your vehicles . This may help them when the time comes that they are purchasing their own policy in showing continuous coverage . So in summation , if they are living in your household or regularly furnished a vehicle then they must be listed as a driver . If they own their own vehicle then they should have their own policy . Speak with your broker to make sure this is the case in your state .
end question
start question
home-insurance
Do You Need To Have Homeowners Insurance In Alaska ?
Homeowner insurance in any state is mandatory if you have a mortgage but is optional if you do n't . The mortgage company wants to protect their interest in the home by making the homeowner purchase homeowner insurance . Everyone should consider purchasing it to protect your investment and the contents of the home plus your personal liability as the owner of the property . Talk to a local agent and review your specific needs for this type of policy .
Life insurance is regulated by the state of Alaska . The Division of Insurance is part of the Alaska Department of Commerce , Community , and Economic Development . The role of the Division of Insurance is to regulate the insurance industry to protect Alaskan consumers . Bret S. Kolb is the current director .
Auto insurers price their products based on risk profiles that they like and can vary by geographic areas as precise as zip codes . For this reason , it 's not possible to declare on auto insurer as the cheapest in as broad a geographic territory as the entire state of Alaska . You should seek out the assistance of an agent licensed in Alaska who can compare various car insurance quotes for you .
Yes , it absolutely is illegal . Everyone signs paperwork when registering vehicles at the Alaska Department Of Motor Vehicles declaring they have current insurance , unlike other states they do not check for proof there at the counter . You do get caught when involved in an accident and you do n't fill out the mandatory crash forms that are required . If you do n't do the crash form , there will not only be a warrant for your arrest its a huge mark on your driving record , basically the same as getting a DUI . Please do not drive without insurance it is the law .
Car insurance is mandatory in all states -LRB- I assume -RRB- . However , you can also provide financial responsibility in many areas . This is when you provide proof that you have sufficient funds to pay a certainamountof damages in the event you were held liable for an incident . Personally , I do remember writing an article earlier this year about car insurance in Alaska . From recollection , there are areas in that state where car insurance is not required .
Generally state laws require establishing residency within a certain amount of time within the state . Once residency is established , registration and insurance would need to be changed as soon as possible . Requirements vary from state to state , but you can find a summary on this website WEBSITELINK The requirements for Alaska , for instance , is 90 days . Massachusetts , however , is only 30 days . Check the resource for information about your particular state .
Progress does offer mobile home insurance . Their coverages and prices are usually very good . Progressive only offers mobile home insurance through independent agents in 8 states : Illinois , Indiana , Iowa , Minnesota , Missouri , Nebraska , Ohio and Wisconsin . However , you can buy Progressive mobile home insurance directly from Progressive in every state except Alaska , Florida , Hawaii and D.C. .
Original Medicare has the same benefits whether you are here in Georgia where I am or in Alaska , Hawaii or Maine . Medicare supplement plans also are identical in every state with regard to plan design . On the other hand , Medicare Advantage plans will vary within a state and from state to state .
Original Medicare -LRB- Part A and Part B -RRB- does not normally cover medical expenses while you are traveling overseas . Some Medicare Supplement plans can be used during overseas trips . There are also some instances where Medicare will cover foreign travel , e.g. travel through Canada on the way to Alaska .
Yes , Just like the cost of living is lower in some states , the cost of medical care is lower in some states . If the cost of care is lower , the insurance company can offer lower rates to members . From the latest information I could find , Utah has the cheapest average rates and Alaska has the most expensive . Some people feel that being able to get insurance from a different state would lower their costs . While this is true for states that are more expensive , it would have the effect of raising the rates in the cheaper states .
The most expensive car insurance rates are typically found in Louisiana , New Jersey , New York , Nevada , Florida , and Michigan . Prices are typically high in these states for a combination of factors that include high cost of vehicle repairs , larger number of uninsured drivers , larger percentage of younger drivers , and more accidents per resident . Other factors can impact auto insurance prices including the incidence of natural disasters in that state , along with the type of weather . For instance , many Northeastern states have been battered with higher-than-expected snowfall totals , which has caused a spike in the number of reported accidents . As demographics of states change , including the percentage of younger/older drivers on the road , prices can also change . Other states that often have higher-than-average auto insurance prices include Delaware , Alaska , Maryland , Texas , and Connecticut . States that often feature some of the cheapest rates include Iowa , Idaho , Wisconsin , North Dakota , Maine , Ohio , and South Dakota . IMPORTANT NOTE : This question was answered by Ed Harris , one of the premier car insurance brokers in the US , with more than 34 years of experience helping consumers find the best auto insurance options . One of his top-rated websites is Carinsurancezoom.org , which allows consumers to instantly view the companies that offer the cheapest prices in their zip code .
Most health insurance plans give some coverage overseas . The extent of the coverage in most cases is determined by looking at the event as life threatening.If that is the case , then emergency room visits would be covered.What is important for the traveler to know is that most doctors and hospitals in foreign countries want payment up front for services at the time of the visit . One instance I know of that happened to a traveler in Panama was a traveler went to the hospital and was required to pay $ 5,000 up front as a deposit before they would treat them . The traveler has to file claims after the fact and wait for a reimbursement . If you are covered by Medicaid or Medicare , there is no coverage outside the U.S. except Medicare will cover emergencies in Canada if they happen while en route to Alaska . When traveling outside the U.S. and on cruises the best course of action is to purchase a medical policy specifically for coverage overseas . These policies are very economical and offer an array of terms and choices . One of the most important services is to have a multilingual customer service agent who can help you locate medical services , deal with currency exchanges , manage claims and can co-ordinate services 24/7 . There are many companies that provide these insurance policies . I represent International Medical Group -LRB- IMG -RRB- who has many choices for nationals and foreign nationals that travel globally for business or pleasure . They have been in business for over twenty years and concentrate solely on this market . The United States Consular Bureau of Affairs also has a list of companies that provide these policies .
The answer here is `` maybe '' . It really depends upon the situation and the coverage . In general , if you consider the same house and the same coverage , the homeowners coverage will cost you less . let 's start with some terms . In the industry , we usually call landlord insurance either dwelling fire , or a dwelling policy . It points to the difference between this and a homeowners policy . A homeowners policy has 6 coverages : A. Dwelling - the structure B . Other Structures - detached garages , shed 's , pole barns , etc. . C. Personal Property - Your stuff D. Loss of Use - The extra costs you 'll incur if you have to live somewhere while your home is repaired E. Personal Liability - Protects you from being sued F. Medical Payments - Pays for injuries that happen on your property without having to be sued . A Dwelling Policy , in general does n't have any coverage C , Personal Property . As a landlord , you 're worried about the building and your liability . Your tenant 's personal property is their responsibility to insure . Dwelling policies are more complicated to put together than homeowners policies but I 'll leave that discussion for another time . Lets talk about why Dwelling Policy usually costs more than a Homeowners policy . With a homeowners policy the insurance company has a greater sense of security because they only have one entity to worry about , the homeowners and their family . They have a financial interest in keeping their home safe , secure , and in good repair . With a rental property , you may have many different tenants occupy that home and they have no financial interest in the home itself . A tenant is much more likely to let things go that may eventually cause a claim . Additionally , with a homeowners policy , the liability is protecting the insured from others , with a dwelling policy , you 're also being protected from the people that actually occupy the home . Now , one last thing to mention . If you 're renting your home and it 's insured on a homeowners policy , change it now . If there 's a claim on the home and the insurance company finds out it 's being rented , they may refuse to pay your claim . Most homeowners policies require the home to be occupied by the owner for coverage to apply . Find a good agent that knows how this works and how to put this coverage together for your situation . It 's much better to know what your coverage is and make choices rather then to think you have coverage you really do n't
Let me put it to you this way , if I may . If you do n't have a mortgage -LRB- which would require you to have and maintain a Homeowners ' policy -RRB- , and you are fortunate enough to have the complete financial where with all to fully rebuild your home if it were totally destroyed , and fully replace all of your belongings at the same time , you do n't need Homeowners Insurance . LIkewise , if you were financially sound enough to settle any law suit that might be launched against you as a result of the serious injury or death of another person or damage to their property caused by you and for which you are then legally liable , you do n't need Homeowners Insurance . Talk to your Insurance Professional . A well thought out and executed Homeowners policy would provide coverage for you for these types of potential losses for literally pennies on the dollar . Why do you need it ? The question is why would you not want it ?
-- > Normal 0 What makes up a good homeowners insurance policy ? In my mind its a policy that is going to do what you want it to do , at a price you are willing to pay . The problem is , most insurance buyers dont really know what they want the policy to do . Most people seem to want a policy to repair or replace their home if its damaged . To me that means you want an all-risk policy on your home with a Guaranteed Replacement Cost feature , which automatically increases your amount of insurance following a loss , to whatever it takes to rebuild your home if it is damaged and has to be rebuilt . All - Risk type policies will not cover everything but they will specifically state what you are not covered for and you can decide where to go from there . Few policies include the Guaranteed Replacement feature ; so make sure you ask for it . And if the company doesnt offer it , you may want to check with someone else . Most people also want their personal stuff replaced should it be damaged or destroyed . So a good homeowners policy should do that . That means , all-risk replacement cost coverage for all your stuff . If its not all-risk -LRB- often called Special Coverage or Open Perils -RRB- Replacement Cost , you may want to look further . Again , not all types of damage will be covered but the policy will tell you what you are not covered for so you wont have any surprises . Often specific exclusions can be eliminated for an additional cost . Most policies dont include these features so make sure you ask for them if that is the kind of coverage you expect . Good homeowners policies will include coverage for the additional expenses you may incur should your home be damaged and you have to live somewhere else while it is being repaired and a nominal amount of Personal Liability coverage , a good one will have limits not less than $ 300,000 . A good homeowners policy will be offered by a financially strong , at least A-rated insurance company hopefully with a local contact to help you understand what you are getting , makes sure it covers any special situations that make up your life and is there should you have a significant claim . A good homeowners policy is one that doesnt get cancelled the first time you have a claim . Buying insurance on-line may be popular and convenient but you have to know what you are doing . Remember if there is a problem , you are one small policy and they are one big insurance company . It may be a good time to have somebody local on your side .
The most expensive mistake a homeowner can make is to be underinsured . Regardless of what the premiums were , a single high value loss that exceeds the limits of the policy can make those saving immaterial . Setting adequate limits is absolutely crucial . The person that can help set appropriate limits is a reliable insurance agent . This is a far greater problem than many think . The primary place where this shows up is having inadequate liability limits . Your homeowners policy provides liability coverage for personal injury and property damage law suits . The company pays all costs for a lawsuit up to the limits of the policy . After that the homeowner is facing the lawsuit alone . Most companies do not offer adequate liability limits and most policyholders select limits that are lower than the maximum offered by the company . An umbrella policy is necessary for most homeowners . The second area that is often underinsured is valuable collections . The homeowners policy has internal limits for recovery on certain items . Most homeowner dont know that their inherited sterling silver is woefully underinsured . They dont understand that those guns in the cabinet could be destroyed and they would only get a fraction of their value . The same is true of jewelry , a coin collection , and many other items . This is all detailed inside the policy , but few homeowners ever read their policy . Some people continue to underinsure their structure . While not as common it is an increasing phenomenon . A homeowner will improve the home and never inform the company or agent . In the event of a loss the amount of coverage might not return the home to its updated glory . This coverage is really inexpensive , however a loss can be paralyzing . Some homeowners have multiple homes . The second homes are often in hazardous areas , such as lakefront , beach front and mountain property . The cost of replacing one of these homes can exceed the insured value because of inflated reconstruction costs . If a forest fire sweeps through some summer cottages , there will be a great demand for contractors to do the work and there will also be bidding for materials . It can get ugly . So adequate insurance is the first step , the second step is to focus on the policy itself . Homeowners can often save significant money by increasing the deductibles on their policies . The deductible should be set at the amount of loss that could be absorbed without serious disruption to the family finances . That is often more than the deductible in the policy . Companies traditionally offer discounts if coverages are packaged . Some companies cover a wide range of policies and by bringing those to a single carrier premium savings can often be realized . This is particularly true if you own another residence that you lease to someone else . Often extending liability coverage from you homeowners policy will save you money . Companies often give discounts for loss prevention . The most common is the central station monitored alarm systems . While companies are rarely as generous as the alarm sales people indicate , there are savings to be had by simply providing a certificate of installation . Sometimes the homeowners policy will be modified if substantial rehabilitation is done to the home . You would need to talk to your agent about this . You could also discuss the jewelry insurance if the jewelry is most often located in a safe deposit at the bank .
The annual premium for a homeowners insurance policy is an individual computation because the policy itself is tailored to the specific requirements of the named insured and the property being covered . Even though premiums and coverages may be similar in a neighborhood with similar homes , there will usually be peculiarities that will make most of them somewhat different . Every home has a fire rating . That fire rating is based upon proximity to a manned fire station and adequate water . Those ratings are published and used by most insurance companies . The fire rating is often a mystery to homeowners because they rely upon the fire station down the road one mile , however , their home is not in the district covered by that fire station . There are complicated agreements between fire districts that allow them to cross boundaries and assist in fires but each has a primary area of coverage that always receives priority . Homeowners often rely upon standing bodies of water and consider them adequate for firefighting . Again , that is a matter of evaluation and does enter into the fire rating . However , a swimming pool will not necessarily improve the fire rating of a home . Insurance companies mine the mountains of information available on losses and can identify the loss differences based upon territories . These territories are usually bounded by zip codes . They become a part of the rating process that determines the premium charged for coverage . The major determinant in the development of the premium for a homeowners policy is the cost of rebuilding the residence . Because a homeowners policy is based upon a formula , this amount drives the amount of coverages extended to personal property and non-attached structures on the property . This figure is determined , generally , by an outside evaluation system . Frequently the cost of rebuilding the residence doesnt match the price paid for the house or the estimated value of the house . While this is a source of consternation it is the cost of rebuilding the residence that guides the limits of the policy . There are certain risks that are excluded or limited . Coverage for some of these can be purchased in the homeowners policy . There might be a limit on the coverage for guns , jewelry , furs , currency and art . Some of this coverage can be purchased . There are exclusions for flood and earthquake and limited earthquake coverage is usually available for purchase . Flood insurance is almost always a separate policy . An often overlooked coverage is sewer backup . This is excluded in most policies but coverage can be purchased . Another is law and ordinance . The additional cost of repairing a house caused by changes in laws and ordinances is not covered in a normal policy but that coverage can be purchased . Liability insurance is the second part of a homeowners policy and could be the most important . The coverage extends to claims of personal injury and property damage and covers a wide range of scenarios . The homeowner can select the limit of coverage and this affects the premium . This is a place where a homeowner can be penny-wise and pound foolish . You can not have too much liability insurance . The computation for a homeowners premium is complicated . Some of the pricing is your individual choices and preference . Consult with a licensed agent for advice as choosing incorrect limits can lead to extreme displeasure at the time of a claim .
If you are a homeowner you need homeowners insurance . If you are a first time buyer then escrow and the lender will make sure you have homeowners insurance in place at the close of the home sale . If you are already a homeowner then I recommend you maintain a homeowners policy . If your home is paid in full you do have the option of letting the policy go but I would advise against this unless you believe you can afford the replace your home in the event of a total loss .
A homeowners policy is a routine requirement of a lender . You need to have a homeowners policy to satisfy the mortgage company . If you do not have a mortgage , the decision to purchase a homeowners policy seems less restrictive . However , the presence of risk is the reason for a homeowners policy . To start with you have a risk that someone can be hurt on your property and sue you . You run the risk that your house will burn to the ground , making smoke of the building and all your worldly possessions . Few people can tolerate such an extreme risk . Homeowners insurance assumes that risk in exchange for a small premium .
This is a great question . Homeowners insurance rates are on the rise in Oklahoma due to all of the claims activity over the past several years . There are many factors to what generates your homeowner 's insurance premium . I hope this makes sense to you and answers your question . Here are some questions that you need to answer prior to receiving a quotation . Where do you live ? Is it a rural area with a volunteer fire department or do you live in a city with a full time fire department ? In the event of a fire , how long would the response time be for the fire fighters to get to your house ? Where is the closest fire hydrant ? What 's the replacement cost of your home ? Not the value of your home . How old is your house ? What is the construction type of your house ? Brick house ? Frame ? Do you have a crawl space or a slab ? Do you have carpeted floors , tile , other ? If your home is older than 20 years , when was your roof last replaced ? Has the wiring been updated ? Has the plumbing been updated ? Do you have an alarm system ? Do you have any pets ? Any children ? Who is living in the home ? Any fireplaces or wood burning stoves ? What deductible amount are you comfortable with ? What do you do for a living ? Do you have a home business ? These are just a few of many questions that your agent or future agent should ask you . Please let me know if I can answer any additional questions or help you out in any way . All the best , Josh DeBoer Fred Daniel & Sons , Inc. www.fdands.com 918-582-8206
end question
start question
auto-insurance
What Is All Risk Auto Insurance ?
That is not a common term . I suspect what you are asking about is comprehensive insurance . This is also known as `` other than collision '' insurance . It provides coverage for physical damage to a vehicle that happens other than ina collision . This includes things like , fire , theft , vandalism , weather and others . It also caninclude `` acts of God '' which are those things which are outside human control , lighting , tornado etc. .
-- > Normal 0 What makes up a good homeowners insurance policy ? In my mind its a policy that is going to do what you want it to do , at a price you are willing to pay . The problem is , most insurance buyers dont really know what they want the policy to do . Most people seem to want a policy to repair or replace their home if its damaged . To me that means you want an all-risk policy on your home with a Guaranteed Replacement Cost feature , which automatically increases your amount of insurance following a loss , to whatever it takes to rebuild your home if it is damaged and has to be rebuilt . All - Risk type policies will not cover everything but they will specifically state what you are not covered for and you can decide where to go from there . Few policies include the Guaranteed Replacement feature ; so make sure you ask for it . And if the company doesnt offer it , you may want to check with someone else . Most people also want their personal stuff replaced should it be damaged or destroyed . So a good homeowners policy should do that . That means , all-risk replacement cost coverage for all your stuff . If its not all-risk -LRB- often called Special Coverage or Open Perils -RRB- Replacement Cost , you may want to look further . Again , not all types of damage will be covered but the policy will tell you what you are not covered for so you wont have any surprises . Often specific exclusions can be eliminated for an additional cost . Most policies dont include these features so make sure you ask for them if that is the kind of coverage you expect . Good homeowners policies will include coverage for the additional expenses you may incur should your home be damaged and you have to live somewhere else while it is being repaired and a nominal amount of Personal Liability coverage , a good one will have limits not less than $ 300,000 . A good homeowners policy will be offered by a financially strong , at least A-rated insurance company hopefully with a local contact to help you understand what you are getting , makes sure it covers any special situations that make up your life and is there should you have a significant claim . A good homeowners policy is one that doesnt get cancelled the first time you have a claim . Buying insurance on-line may be popular and convenient but you have to know what you are doing . Remember if there is a problem , you are one small policy and they are one big insurance company . It may be a good time to have somebody local on your side .
No one auto insurer has the best product for all people all the time . And auto insurance carriers have varying appetites for risk that varies greatly on a regional basis . Therefore no one can categorically declare one auto insurer best for all residents of one state . Your best bet is to seek out the guidance of an agent who is licensed to write auto insurance in your state and have him or her show you numerous quotes for auto insurance so you can determine which is best for you .
A Personal Auto Policy -LRB- PAP -RRB- generally comes with five coverages included in the premium . 1 . Auto Liability ... protects you from claims other people make against you arising from auto accidents 2 . Uninsured/Underinsured Motorists Liability -LRB- UIM -RRB- ... protects you for claims you make against other drivers who do not have insurance or do not have enough insurance 3 . Medical Payments ... pays money to doctors and hospitals for your medical expenses arising out of auto accidents 4 . Collision ... pays for damage to your car arising out of auto accidents where you collide with another car or object , like a tree . 5 . Comprehensive ... pays for damage to your car arising out accidents that are other than collision , for example , flood , fire and theft . When you ask , `` How Much Auto Insurance Do I Need ? '' , I 'm assuming you mean # 1 , Auto Liability so I 'll limit my answer to that coverage . In subsequent postings , I 'll answer how much you need for the other coverages . So , how much Auto Liability Insurance do you need ? It depends . If you just want to get on the road and be legal about it , in New Jersey , the minimum limit of insurance is $ 35,000 for each accident . You are also required to purchase Uninsured/Underinsured Motorists Liability and Medical Payments and they also have minimum limit requirements . Other states have similar minimum limit requirements and they are spelled out at each state 's insurance department website . Minimum limit policies will get you on the road , but they are not a smart use of your dollars . Consider an auto accident where you strike a Lawyer 's Mercedes ... his new Mercedes . Think $ 35,000 will take care of everything ? I would n't bet on it . And if $ 35,000 is not enough , you 'll pay personally for a long time . Now , if your primary goal is adequate protection for you , your family and your assets , you need to take a step back . Liability claims against you arising out of the use of an auto is one area you should be concerned about . You should also be concerned about liability claims arising out of owning a home , operating a boat or a motorcycle or an RV . Liability claims can also arise from owning vacation property . You can trigger a claim . Your spouse can trigger a claim and your children can trigger a claim . Considering all the people in your life who can trigger a claim and all the ways they can do it , How much is enough liability insurance ? How much should you buy ? Answer : I do n't know . But I do know EVERY smart insurance consumer , concerned about `` how much insurance is enough ? '' should purchase a $ 1 million Personal Umbrella Policy . A Personal Umbrella Policy is a secondary policy . Your auto policy , homeowner policy , boat policy , and so on are all primary policies . Each primary policy has its own limit of insurance . In the event of an accident -LRB- in the home , in the car or on the water -RRB- , you have a primary policy to protect you . If the amount of primary insurance is not enough to pay a claim , the Personal Umbrella policy adds a million dollar cushion . Is a Personal Umbrella policy expensive ? No . A million dollar umbrella GENERALLY starts around $ 125 . That 's $ 125 for $ 1,000,000 of liability protection you can use over your auto insurance or your homeowner insurance or your boat insurance and so on and so on . If there is a better deal in the insurance business , I 'm not aware of it . Now if you 're sold on the idea that a Personal Umbrella Policy has merit , we need to return to your original question : `` How much Auto Liability Insurance do I need ? '' You need an amount of insurance that satisfies the minimum requirements of the Personal Umbrella Policy . For example , if your Personal Umbrella Policy requires you have a $ 300,000 Personal Auto Liability Limit , that 's what you need to buy for your auto policy . If the requirement is $ 300,000 and you have $ 250,000 , there will be a $ 50,000 gap in the event of a serious claim . Again , for example , you 're responsible for a serious auto accident . It ends up costing $ 600,000 . Your auto policy will pay $ 250,000 , you 'll have to pay $ 50,000 and then the umbrella will pay the remaining $ 300,000 . So you can see , you need to buy the correct amount of auto and home insurance and the correct amount for any other primary policy so you do n't have a gap in coverage . Can you buy a Personal Umbrella Policy with a limit higher than $ 1 million ? You can , but the higher the limit , the greater the scrutiny . I hope I 've answered your question , but if I have n't , feel free to call , fax or email me .
Auto insurance carriers perform a risk analysis to identify high risk drivers . They will look at your credit rating , age , occupation , place of residence , your driving record , insurance payments -LRB- on time or late -RRB- , marital status , type of car and your sex . Each person is weighed by there own risk factor by the insurance carrier before they give a quote . The auto insurance industry invest more time and research into risk analyst than any other industry and they have found a pattern that relates a low credit score to a high risk driver . Due to this finding the auto insurance carrier can adjust the rate of your premium based on your credit score .
Assigned risk in California which is what I amfamiliarwith is a processing center by which people having trouble buying auto insurance are connected with an insurance company that will insure them . Assigned Risk is not an insurance company but are companies that are required by law to participate . The amount of autos an insurance company has on the road would constitute the percentage of their obligation to the plan . There is financial hardship criteria to qualify for Assigned Risk . Also agents who offer Assigned Risk must becertifiedto offer this coverage . You can go online and then beconnectedto an agent to see if you qualify for assigned risk .
Direct auto insurance is not a type of auto insurance , but a way to buy or method of selling auto insurance . Some auto insurance companies , like USAA & Amica , do not have insurance agents representing them , and sell auto insurance -LRB- and other types of insurance -RRB- direct to the public only . Auto insurance companies selling direct to the public staff call centers with licensed insurance representatives employed by the company , to sell and service the company 's insurance products . Although I think most people benefit from receiving the personal service of an agent , accountable to the customer for providing customer service , advice , and assistance , both USAA & Amica have excellent reputations for claims & customer service . Companies like GEICO & Progressive are known for selling direct to the public , though GEICO has agents available in many large metropolitan areas , and Progressive also sells through independent insurance agents , though the products and rates will be different than buying direct . When you call a company selling direct for an auto insurance quote , you speak with a company employee licensed to sell insurance , working from a call center , most likely out-of state -LRB- but not outside of the USA -RRB- . If you buy the auto insurance policy , there is no one person at the company responsible for your account , as there would be , if you purchased a policy through an agent . So , a company employee sells you the auto insurance policy , but if you call back with a question , or to make a policy change liking adding or removing a car , whichever employee answering the phone will help you , much like you receive help when you call your cable TV company . GEICO & Progressive seem to compete on price more than other companies , but buying direct does not always mean a better price . Selling direct mean no agent commissions to pay , but selling direct has other costs , like more marketing costs for TV & media ads , employee salaries and benefits . A wise auto insurance shopper decides on the coverage they need , then check the rates of all the major auto insurance companies in their state , regardless of whether the company sells direct , through their own local agents , or through independent insurance agents .
The largest insurers of private passenger vehicles in the USA , in order by US market share , are State Farm , GEICO , Allstate , Progressive , and Farmers Insurance Group . However , the top five companies will vary by state . For example , American Family Insurance is the company with the largest auto insurance market share in Wisconsin . Each state 's auto insurance market is unique . The top five companies in terms of US auto insurance market share are large national companies available in most US states . However , regional insurance companies often have large market share in certain states , like Commerce Insurance in Massachusetts . So , the important auto insurance companies will depend on where you live . The companies with the largest market shares do not necessarily make them the best companies for you . Progressive & GEICO continue to have large gains in market share over recent years , which may be a sign they have lower rates than competitors . Some of the best companies can be smaller regional companies . For example , companies like Erie & Auto-owners usually score higher than many other companies in annual JD Power auto customer satisfaction & auto claims satisfaction studies . The best thing you can do is read reviews & check the ratings of all the major auto insurance companies in your state , and compare their coverage , service , and rates . People really can find a better auto insurance company with much lower rates , if they shop with enough companies .
There was a time when it was much less but in many cases the auto were not rated correctly for the business use and also at that time the liability did not extend to other autos driven . Now days it cost more but there is a good reason for that if you are having a commercial auto policy your limits usually are much higher more like $ 1 million in liability limits or higher . Most personal auto policies do not have that high of limits . Now you can have a personal auto with Business use on it which will make your personal auto a little more expensive But it really depends on the type of business and the use . If you have your business name pained on your personal auto then this would not be a good fit for a personal auto policy . Each carrier has VERY specific guideline just like a pizza delivery driver needs a commercial auto policy most carriers on a personal auto would not cover you if you were doing that type of work and had personal auto coverage only . Talk to your agent and make sure that you are covered correctly each carrier and state has it 's own rules and rates make sure yours is rated as it should be .
I suggest you start by listing all the insurance you are now buying ; auto , tenants or home insurance , health , disability , life , etc. . The list should include a basic outline of the coverage , the insurer or agent and the annual premium . The information on this list may point you in the right direction . I would first consider insurers/agents you are currently doing business with if you are at all satisfied with them.If not , maybe you should be looking for more than just home insurance . Request limits , coverage and deductibles consistent with what you currently purchase.If you have all-risk coverage on your car -LRB- comprehensive and collision -RRB- , I would suggest considering all-risk coverage on your home and other personal property you own . If you have $ 300,000 liability limits on your car , you may want to consider similar limits on your home . Deductibles should be consistent whether they are car , home or medical and represent the amount of risk you are willing and can afford to assume . Features I like to see in home policies include : All-risk * coverage on the home AND personal property , GUARANTEED Replacement cost of your home , consistent liability limits and deductibles . In some locals , you have to be concerned with the perils of Flood , earthquake , sinkhole damage and wind as standard policies limit coverage in these areas . It 's common to look for the least expensive policy but it 's also important to have the RIGHT policy . An insurance policy is just a very expensive piece of paper until you happen to need it .
Auto insurance typically follows the driver first and then the vehicle . If you have auto insurance coverage on your vehicle and allow another person to drive the vehicle and they do not have auto insurance coverage your auto insurance coverage would typically apply if they were involved in an fault accident less your deductible . This could potentially put you at financial risk , risk of a rate hike , or even possible cancellation or non-renewal .
Commercial auto insurance is what generally covers a business vehicle . These policies usually cover a fleet of vehicles and the rating is done against a list of drivers . The use of the vehicle and the mileage of the vehicle are two other critical rating components . As the fleet of vehicles gets larger the amount paid by the operator starts to closely reflect the losses suffered by the insurance company until the company gets large enough that it skips the insurance company and assumes all the risk , or most of the risk themselves . This is known as self-insurance . Personal auto policies are rated on other criteria . In some situations the policy may be less expensive than if it was on a commercial policy . Most of the time , however , because of their increased usage , the business auto policy will be more expensive .
That is a great question ! There are many factors that go into determining rates charged by insurance companies in their auto policies . Remember that their focus is always on the risk that you might have to file a claim , and get paid . Since that is the focus , the more risk , the higher the premium they will charge you -LRB- so it does n't cost the company as much when they do have to pay out . It seems wrong , but trust me , you would much rather have insurance if God forbid you are in an accident than not ... -RRB- . Things like accident rates where you live , the number of claims filed annually , theft rates , number of uninsured motorists , and average vehicle cost will all be factors in what they will charge you . If your province is heavily populated and there are a lot of cars , accidents , and crime it is wise to expect that your auto insurance rate will be higher than if your province is fairly rural , and crime and claims are low . It really is all about the risk . Thank you for asking !
That is a great question ! Unfortunately , you will find it extremely difficult to get auto insurance without being a licensed driver . Insurance companies are all about risk , and the risk of you getting insurance and then driving around on a suspended or no license at all is n't one they are going to be quick to take.It 's like trying to get served at a bar without ID . Even if you are old enough , they 're going to not serve you , and the auto insurance company will be the same way . Without a license , you wo n't get insured . Thanks for asking !
Before the advent of the use of the use of a credit score and multi-variant rating formulas , rate making relied upon what the industry referred to as `` stability factors '' to arrive at rates . Stability factors are things like age , marital status , whether you have a job , have children , and similar types of considerations . The idea was -LRB- and is today -RRB- a person had a better chance of being profitable as a customer -LRB- from the insurer 's point of view -RRB- if you are stable . So , stability factors were things about you and your life that reflect upon your commitment to stability . Owning a house was certainly a stability factor . Today , the rate making logic is decided on a similar assumption about your stability as a customer but we lean harder on credit as an -LRB- all encompassing -RRB- indicator than we do on these other factors . However , most carriers have more than one rate that is possible depending upon answers to the stability factors that are being considered , with credit score and claims history being primary factors . Because the question is an open question subject to more than one interpretation , owning a home does enter into auto insurance from a stability point of view , and a rate point of view . Carriers understand that customers with auto or home , but not both , have more claims and cost more on claims . Those with auto and home together with one carrier will be -LRB- on average -RRB- 15-20 % less costly to insured from the claims point of view . That is why carriers offer auto-home multi-line discounts because they know the customer will be a better risk , incur fewer losses , and have losses that cost less , than the customers with only a single line of business with the carrier . So , it is true that owning a home does have an impact on auto insurance . Now , where it is n't likely to have any impact is on the policy coverage itself . Home and auto policies alike are written to provide the coverage intended so having a homeowner policy is n't likely going to impact the coverage on your auto policy . These are the three possible paths your question creates -LRB- in my assessment -RRB- so yes , having home insurance does impact auto insurance from a cost and underwriting perspective , but not from any coverage issue by and large .
Well , it is different in that itis designed to dealwith your health care issues and the financial risks posed by illnesses and injury . This is quite different than other types of risk in life that a person needs to address . Your house might get struck by lightning and catch fire . Obviously this is not a health issue like cancer . So , you need to have homeowners insurance to protect your property and its contents . Similarly , you might be involved in a car accident and , while physically unharmed , you are faced with the repair or replacement costs of your vehicle and the liability for harm you may have caused if you were at fault in the auto accident . You would have auto insurance for this risk as health insurance just wo n't pay to have your fender replaced . There are a variety of financial risks that life presents us with and there are a variety of insurance products that address these specific needs .
This ultimately depends on what your risk class is that you qualify for with a carrier . The risk class is the most critical factor in determining the cost -LRB- premium -RRB- of a life insurance policy . The risk class depends on a number of factors including whether you 're male or female , your medical history , height/weight profile , any tobacco usage , and other factors . Every carrier has their own set of underwriting guidelines and mortality tables , and each may offer a different risk class for a given medical profile - e.g. company A may offer preferred -LRB- featuring lower rates -RRB- and company B may only offer standard -LRB- featuring higher rates -RRB- . Just comparing quotes from numerous companies that show the same risk class wo n't give you a truly accurate picture . Unfortunately there 's too many factors that go into premium pricing to say what you should or should not be paying for your coverage each year . A lot of it depends on what type -LRB- s -RRB- of coverage you 're looking to purchase , the amount of coverage , and your health history . Non-medical policies generally cost more than fully underwritten policies that require an exam because an insurance company is taking on more risk without having a full medical picture of you . Consult with an experienced life insurance broker to see what plans are available and discuss the needs for the coverage . We can help you create the benefit structure that would be best suitable to meet your needs . From there we can compare and analyze multiple carriers to see which will offer you the coverage with the lowest premiums . Please feel free to contact me for further assistance . Thanks very much .
`` Better '' is a completely subjective term in this case . The question is really about covering your risk and whether that risk is temporary or permanent . Term insurance is usually used to offset a temporary risk such as a mortgage or other debt that has a specific term . Whole Life , and other types of permanent insurance , are generally used to cover risks that are ongoing with no expiration date , like your income or living expenses . When working with my clients , we spend more time identifying risks and classifying them as temporary or permanent , then assigning amounts to each . The we match the product to the risk and the budget . If cash flow is n't an issue -LRB- which it usually is -RRB- , I recommend 100 % permanent insurance as it 's the most cost effective over the long run . If you live long enough , the cash value in the policy will equal or surpass the premiums paid , effectively making your net outlay zero or better . What I usually find is that people do have a budget but still want to cover themselves properly and we end up covering the temporary risk with term insurance and the permanent risk with some type of permanent insurance , like whole life . The more important question is n't which is better , but how much is needed . Set up correctly , you could start out with mostly or all term insurance and convert it to permanent as your budget allows . Another factor to consider is age and insurability . The earlier in life you buy life insurance and the healthier you are , the less it will cost . In summary , the best insurance is the insurance you buy now , when you 're younger and healthier . Find a good advisor and he/she will help you determine the amount and type which best fits your situation . Get insured first and lock in your insurability . You can always make changes in the future .
A quote , in short , is an estimation of premium you can expect to pay for your life insurance policy - the premiums can be paid annually , semi-annually , quarterly , or monthly . Please note , a quote is only as good as the information it 's based on . There are 4 main factors that determine the premium for the coverage - your age , the amount of coverage you 're trying to secure , how long you want it guaranteed for , and your risk classification . The risk classification is the MOST important factor in determining how much you can expect to/will pay for your coverage . If the medical history is not factored into the quote -LRB- e.g. you 're only running numbers based on someone 's date of birth and/or height/weight -RRB- , any quotes provided are pretty much meaningless because they do not provide an accurate representation of what you can expect to be approved at . To provide a little background on risk classes : every life insurance company has different underwriting guidelines that determine what risk class an individual qualifies for . Since every company has different guidelines for qualification , one might offer a better risk class than another based on the aforementioned information , resulting in a lower premium for the same coverage . The different risk classes someone can be assigned by a carrier are : Preferred Plus -LRB- sometimes seen as Preferred Elite -RRB- this means the proposed insured is typically in superior health , normal height/weight profile , no chronic illnesses , lab results within normal range , no immediate family members died from heart disease or cancer before age 60 . Preferred this means the proposed insured is in excellent health . Height/weight may be a little over the most preferred range , treatment for high blood pressure or high cholesterol usually acceptable , lab results normal or slightly abnormal . Standard Plus - this means the proposed insured 's health is better than the average . Height/weight may be higher than normal . Standard - this means the proposed insured is in average health and has a normal life expectancy . Height/weight may be on the high side , possible treatment for several minor conditions , one or more parents died from heart disease/cancer before age 60 , slightly elevated lab results -LRB- such as higher than normal blood pressure or cholesterol -RRB- . Substandard - this means the proposed insured has a below average life expectancy -LRB- commonly seen as high risk life insurance -RRB- . Height/weight may be considered obese , treatment for chronic illnesses or major health conditions -LRB- such as prior heart attack , cancer , diabetes -RRB- , abnormal lab results . Substandard ratings are expressed as a table rating , usually designated as Tables A-J or 1-10 . Each additional table increase is usually a 25 % increase over the standard risk class rates . Tobacco user risk classes are preferred smoker , standard smoker , and substandard smoker . There is no preferred plus or standard plus risk classification for tobacco users . It 's best to consult with an experienced life insurance broker who can shop your case among multiple carriers to see who will offer you the most favorable risk classification for your program . Please feel free to contact me for help or if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
A quote , in short , is an estimation of premium you can expect to pay for your life insurance policy - the premiums can be paid annually , semi-annually , quarterly , or monthly . Please note , a quote is only as good as the information it 's based on . There are 4 main factors that determine the premium for the coverage - your age , the amount of coverage you 're trying to secure , how long you want it guaranteed for , and your risk classification . The risk classification is the MOST important factor in determining how much you can expect to/will pay for your coverage . If the medical history is not factored into the quote -LRB- e.g. you 're only running numbers based on someone 's date of birth and/or height/weight -RRB- , any quotes provided are pretty much meaningless because they do not provide an accurate representation of what you can expect to be approved at . To provide a little background on risk classes : every life insurance company has different underwriting guidelines that determine what risk class an individual qualifies for . The company will look at your personal medical history , smoker status , height/weight profile , results of the medical exam -LRB- if applying for a policy requiring it - no exam policies typically cost more -RRB- , your family medical history -LRB- e.g. cancer or heart disease before age 60 in the immediate family -RRB- , motor vehicle record , and any hazardous activities you may participate in -LRB- such as aviation , scuba diving , drag racing , etc -RRB- . Since every company has different guidelines for qualification , one might offer a better risk class than another based on the aforementioned information , resulting in a lower premium for the same coverage . The different risk classes someone can be assigned by a carrier are : Preferred Plus -LRB- sometimes seen as Preferred Elite -RRB- this means the proposed insured is typically in superior health , normal height/weight profile , no chronic illnesses , lab results within normal range , no immediate family members died from heart disease or cancer before age 60 . Preferred this means the proposed insured is in excellent health . Height/weight may be a little over the most preferred range , treatment for high blood pressure or high cholesterol usually acceptable , lab results normal or slightly abnormal . Standard Plus - this means the proposed insured 's health is better than the average . Height/weight may be higher than normal . Standard - this means the proposed insured is in average health and has a normal life expectancy . Height/weight may be on the high side , possible treatment for several minor conditions , one or more parents died from heart disease/cancer before age 60 , slightly elevated lab results -LRB- such as higher than normal blood pressure or cholesterol -RRB- . Substandard - this means the proposed insured has a below average life expectancy -LRB- commonly seen as high risk life insurance -RRB- . Height/weight may be considered obese , treatment for chronic illnesses or major health conditions -LRB- such as prior heart attack , cancer , diabetes -RRB- , abnormal lab results . Substandard ratings are expressed as a table rating , usually designated as Tables A-J or 1-10 . Each additional table increase is usually a 25 % increase over the standard risk class rates . Tobacco user risk classes are preferred smoker , standard smoker , and substandard smoker . There is no preferred plus or standard plus risk classification for tobacco users . It 's best to consult with an experienced life insurance broker who can shop your case among multiple carriers to see who will offer you the most favorable risk classification for your program . Please feel free to contact me for help or if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
end question
start question
life-insurance
Is A Life Insurance Payout Considered Income ?
Life insurance payouts are usually considered unearned income . As such , a life insurance payout is not subject to income tax . The new 3.8 % Medicare tax on unearned income excludes life insurance cash value . The Medicare tax also excludes life insurance proceeds that are not subject to income tax .
A Life Insurance payout is technically income , however , Life Insurance is not taxable , and is paid out in lump sum . Other policies that are paid out to beneficiaries may be Annuities which are taxable as ordinary income as with all payments when the annuities reach maturity .
Annuity withdrawals from a non-registered immediate or payout annuity consist of an interest portion and a return of capital portion . In Canada , you are not taxed on the return of capital portion , but you are taxed on the interest portion . Think of annuities as the opposite of a mortgage . In a 25 year mortgage , early payments consist of mostly interest with little going towards the principle . With an annuity , the early payments you receive are mostly taxable interest and a little of your own principle . For those individuals who can qualify , a prescribed annuity equalizes the interest income . For example , with a 25 year annuity the total interest earned is divided by 25 and spread out equally over the term of the contact . Increased after tax income in the early years is the result . There are specific rules governing prescribed annuities , If you are interested in more information , please contact me . Income from a payout annuity may qualify for income splitting for income tax purposes . This allows you to transfer up to 50 % of the taxable income earned from the payout annuity . Missing out on the federal pension income income tax credit ? Income from a payout annuity may qualify for the $ 2,000 non-refundable tax credit . Note : Interest earned on a Guaranteed Investment Annuity -LRB- GIA -RRB- also may qualify . If you have further questions , or feel that I could be of assistance , please do not hesitate to contact me . If you would like to work with a local life insurance broker , you could start with a Google search . For example , if you search for : life insurance broker Halifax or life insurance agent Halifax , my name , along with several others , will come up . You can use the same method to find a life insurance broker in your community .
Fixed annuities are similar to CDs in the sense that they pay guaranteed interest rates . The advantages are that fixed annuities typically pay interest rates considerably higher than bank CDs . Insurance companies also have tougher financial standards to meet for cash reserves than banks which can make them more secure in the eyes of a consumer . There are several different types of fixed annuities but they fall into two main categories immediate and deferred . Immediate annuities make a fixed payment determined by how much money you put into the annuity and your age . Deferred annuities accumulate interest and offer different payout strategies later in life . The longer you wait to initiate payout , the larger the payout each year . Many retirees are using deferred annuities as part of their retirement income strategy because it is guaranteed income for either a specific period or a lifetime stream of income . You can choose options like single life payout or joint life payout . If this sounds familiar , it is essentially like setting up your own personal retirement pension . The biggest concern from most folks heading into retirement is that they will run out of money before they die . Fixed annuities can help remove that concern as they can help avoid the ups and downs of a volatile stock market . Other advantages of a fixed annuity include a low investment limits . There are many companies that have minimums of just a few thousand dollars . The interest paid as your annuity grows in value is also tax deferred until you pull the money out . The biggest drawback of a fixed annuity is cash liquidity . Lets say you put in $ 100,000 and intend to begin taking lifetime income seven or ten years later but two years into that period , you changed your mind and want to withdraw your money . Just like with a bank CD , there will be a consequence for early withdrawal . This surrender charge can be significant . Whats the reason for the surrender charge ? The insurance company has taken your money along with thousands of other folks money and invested it in long term financial vehicles based on your initial commitment and now youre asking them to bust your money out because of your personal situation and that costs them money . The solution : Only put money in a fixed annuity that you are certain can be left alone to complete the strategy you set out on . Most fixed annuities do not have inflation adjustments . The spending power of a monthly payment over time will erode based on inflation and that needs to be taken into consideration . There are fixed annuities with inflation protection available at an additional cost . You can also use a laddered approach with multiple annuities to combat inflation concerns during retirement . If your own a single-life annuity and you begin receiving income and then die a year or two later , depending on the contract , payments could cease . The guaranteed payout in a situation like this varies significantly from product to product and this should be of primary concern when evaluating which annuity product or company best meets your individual needs . The best way to avoid this risk is to consider a joint-life annuity . Of course , there are many different types of fixed annuities and you need to consult with a qualified retirement income adviser in order to determine which type of fixed annuity fits your particular situation .
Life insurance payouts are usually considered unearned income . As such , a life insurance payout is not subject to income tax . The new 3.8 % Medicare tax on unearned income excludes life insurance cash value . The Medicare tax also excludes life insurance proceeds that are not subject to income tax .
In Canada , there are two basic types of immediate -LRB- payout -RRB- annuities , term certain and life annuities . Term certain annuities payout over a specified term and then stop . Life annuities payout over the lifetime of the annuitant -LRB- can be joint life -RRB- . Life annuities can also include a guaranteed payout option . Life annuities are only available from life insurance companies . Term certain annuities are available from available from life insurance companies and other financial institutions including banks and trust companies.There are a number of different options to consider when purchasing an annuity too numerous to cover here . You would be best served by working with an independent insurance broker who can help you find the right plan . If you have further questions , or feel that I could be of assistance , please do not hesitate to contact me .
In Canada annuities there are two main types of annuities : accumulation annuities and payout annuities . If they are issued by an insurance company they can/do include maturity & death benefit guarantees , potential creditor proofing , estate bypass -LRB- privacy and costs -RRB- and more . They are used extensively by retirement and estate planners . The topic of annuities with all our industry jargon is indeed confusing . Experience has taught me that an understanding the basics is the key step . 1 . An accumulation annuity is as the name suggests is used to save money , a payout annuity option is included as part of the contract . There are two main types of accumulation annuities : Guaranteed Interest Annuity -LRB- GIA -RRB- - principle is guaranteed and interest is earned similar to a GIC Guaranteed Investment Fund -LRB- GIF -RRB- - similar to a mutual fund , the principle is at risk , however , with maturity and death benefit guarantees , etc. . In Canada , they are also referred to a segregated funds or variable annuities . 2 . Payout Annuities , you exchange a sum of money for a flow of income . There are many variations with different guarantees but the basic two types are : Annuity certain , where in exchange for a lump sum of money you receive a guaranteed income for a specified number of years . Life annuity , where in exchange for a lump sum of money you receive a guaranteed income for the rest of your life or with a joint life . These are usually purchased with a guarantee payment period . The more guarantees , the lower the income . To understand an annuity , first understand a mortgage . With a mortgage you receive a lump sum of money and pay back principal and interest over a specified term until the balance is zero . With a payout annuity certain you are at the opposite side of the equation , you exchange a lump sum of money for a guaranteed income stream for a specified term . You will find 16 `` I want to ... How do I '' , that illustrates some strategies using annuities on www.jpw.ca Annuity strategies can be complicated . It is your money and you would be prudent work a life insurance broker with a professional designation like a CLU -LRB- Chartered Life Underwriter -RRB- or a CFP -LRB- Certified Financial Planner -RRB- . If you have further questions please contact me . Paul
Annuities are a stream of steady income paymentsduring retirement . Money is contributed during the early years . Money is contributed compounded income andtax deferred , however the earnings are not . Withdrawals are advised at the age beginning 591/2 . You may agree to pay at lump sum one time payment or at a monthly premium . The forms of payments for payout are Lifetime Income is which you are paid for a certain amount of years like 20 , 30 , or 40 . and the benificiary is to receive the remainder upon death of the annuant . Another form of pay out is Lifetime Pay Outs which are fixed or variable , and payouts are for he lifetime of the annuant until death . Another form is Incomefor Life with a Guaranteed period Certain period which are payouts for life with a benificiary option of you die while this payout is in process .
Non-qualified annuities are designed to ultimately generate income . Different payout structures are available like ten or 20 years certain . But one of the most popular payout options is life only or lifetime income the annuitant cant outlive . There is special tax treatment for life only as it relates to basis , which is amortized to the annuitants life expectancy as a portion of the first payment -LRB- which includes gain -RRB- until exhausted . Single premium immediate annuities can annuitization in similar fashion . So annuities that generate lifetime income should be considered as foundational tactic to your overall income strategy in retirement .
What are annuities ? Well as simply as possible , Annuities are investment products offered through insurance companies . There are different kinds of annuities , some for building balances and others for spending balances of money . The building balances form of annuity is invested and grows tax deferred over time . This is known as the accumulation phase . Depending on your choice of accumulation annuity you can have little risk to significant risk on return . Reducing your investment risk usually also means reducing your investment return . Accumulation annuities can offer a larger range of risk and return options along with tax deferral . When you decide to spend or distribute savings through an annuity , it is called an immediate annuity and begins a systematic series of regular payouts over your lifetime . An immediate annuity is know as a product that you `` ca n't outlive '' as it will pay you as long as you live . And , depending on the payout you choose , can guarantee that if you pass early , the payouts will continue to a beneficiary of your choosing for a set number of years or until all of your contributed funds are spent . An immediate annuity now offers a variety of payout options and really should be considered as part of a retirement portfolio . They provide a constant steady stream of income that will last as long as you do and if you choose an option will keep pace with inflation over time .
There are many factors that go into determine what an annuity will payout per month . The primary factor is the type of annuity you have . Additionally , there are usually options associated with the payout of an annuity , so answering your question without more information is not possible . If you are considering an annuity payment , be sure to compare all of your options . Here are some general factors that go into determining annuity payments -LRB- not all apply to each type of annuity and payout option -RRB- : The amount put into the annuity The growth of the annuity over time The age of the person -LRB- s -RRB- at the time annuity payments begin The age of the spouse if a joint payout applies The length of time the payments are guaranteed to last
The proceeds from a life insurance payment can be used in any way the beneficiary sees fit . Many people will put it into their checking account , a savings account , buy a life insurance policy on themselves , invest some of it -LRB- e.g. retirement accounts , stock market , etc. -RRB- , spend some of it -LRB- i.e. paying off bills , funeral expenses , down payment on a house , etc. -RRB- . A SPIA can be a great option to consider as well . SPIAs are offering about 6-7 % interest on the funds right now and guarantee you an income stream for the rest of your life . The amount of the payout can be a factor in determining what may be most advantageous for you . If someone has a $ 50,000 payout , they may consider just putting it in their bank account or paying off debts . Someone with a $ 1,000,000 payout may decide to diversify the money 's usage by putting a portion away , pay off some debts , invest some it , and create an annuity . It 's helpful to consult with a financial advisor when trying to create a good course of action . Keep in mind though , a financial advisor/planner will likely have fees that they charge for their management of the funds . Please feel free to contact me for help . As an experienced insurance broker , I 've helped many clients who have had a claim figure out a good course of action for the use of the funds and I do not charge any fees for my services - as an insurance broker , I 'm compensated by the insurance company for sales of policies , I do not charge fees for my input . Thanks very much .
The term `` qualified '' should really be `` tax-qualified '' . A tax-qualified long-term care insurance policy -LRB- TQ -RRB- is one that pays out benefits that are not subject -LRB- in most cases -RRB- to income taxation in the year that they are received by the policy owner . -LRB- See `` NOTE '' , below . -RRB- The benefits paid out froma `` non-qualified '' long-term care policy -LRB- NTQ -RRB- may be subject to income tax in the year that they are received . Policies purchased prior to 1998 should be reviewed by a qualified tax advisor for any questions about taxation of benefits . Legislation in 1996 allowed for federal exemption from benefit payout taxationfor policies purchased after a certain datethat metspecific requirements outlined in that legislation . NOTE : LTC insurance policies that payout their benefit as a cash amount -LRB- indemnity policies -RRB- may exceed the government-allowed limit on how much of that benefit can be considered `` tax-qualified '' . If you have one of those types of policies , consult with the carrier 's policy owner service unit to determine how your benefits might be paid out should you qualify for care . Some carriers will only payout a cash benefit up to the federally-mandated limit to avoid triggering a 1099 being sent to the IRS . But , it 's better to check than be surprised .
Is an annuity guaranteed for life ? Well you may be an annuity payout and the short answer is yes . You can not outlive an immediate annuity that pays you a stream of income for your life . You can even establish guarantee windows that will continue to pay a payout after you 've passed . they are called period certain payouts . But yes , you can not outlive an annuity payout .
It is important to note that the previous answer is specific to Immediate Annuities . More specifically Lifetime Immediate Annuities . There is also another popular form of Annuity called a Deferred Annuity . These actually will grow your funds , usually at a set interest rate , until you decide to either move the funds or to take income from them . If you decide to take income from it , you may do so the same way as an Immediate Annuity . You can choose a Lifetime Payout , a Lifetime Payout with Beneficiary Options , or a payout for a specific number of years . In short , an Annuity is a retirement savings tool that allows you to grow your money or to create an income stream from your money .
That is a complex question , if you defer payments even just a few years you can get an income rider that will pay out for your entire lifetime . Growth rates depend on whether it is a fixed annuity , or indexed , if it is lifetime payout , there is a table based on the age you begin distributions . Every year you defer income you get a larger % payout . Fixed annuities are paying 1-2 % , deferred indexed annuities can come with income riders of 4-10 % . Once distributions begin the income riders usually go away , but some products allow you to take income , while allowing the remaining funds to continue to grow . These new lifetime withdraws , are not Annuitizing , & allow any funds to be passed on to beneficiaries . Also many annuities now have a rider that doubles , or triples the account value , if you need to go into a nursing home . If your account value reaches zero , & you leave the nursing home . Your lifetime income continue at the same level as prior to going into the nursing home .
When the beneficiary receives a life insurance payout , the insurance company will work with them to help make the payout most beneficial for their situation . If there is a mortgage to pay off , taking the payout in a lump sum may work best . If the beneficiary needs the life insurance proceeds for income , taking the death benefit in monthly installments may work better . The life insurance company pays interest to the beneficiary on money left in the policy until it is taken out .
Creditors can not go after the life insurance payout to pay the debts of the deceased insured person , as long as the beneficiary or beneficiaries who are receiving the life insurance proceeds are actual people . Life insurance bypasses probate , so the creditor does not have the opportunity to access the life insurance payout . If the beneficiary is the insured person 's estate , the creditors may be able to go after the life insurance death benefit to pay the debts of the insured . If the beneficiary is the one who has the debts , then the creditors can go after the life insurance payout . This is also true if the beneficiary shared a debt with the deceased .
Payout Annuities can be either term certain or life annuities . Term certain annuities - in exchange for a lump sum premium you receive a guaranteed income stream for a specified term after which the income stops . For example 10 , 20 , 25 years to to age 90 . These type of annuities are issued by numerous financial institutions including : insurance companies ; banks and trust companies . Life annuities - in exchange for a lump sum premium you receive a guaranteed income for your lifetime . They also can be issued on a joint life basis . There are also numerous guarantee options available that guarantee a certain payout total amount . These type of annuities are issued only by life insurance companies . If you have further questions , or feel that I could be of assistance , please do not hesitate to contact me . If you would like to work with a local life insurance broker , you could start with a Google search . For example , if you search for : life insurance broker Halifax or life insurance agent Halifax , my name , along with several others , will come up . You can use the same method to find a life insurance broker in your community .
Life annuities are generally a lifetime payout of income based on the companies net interest rate and mortality credits assigned to the policy . Life only payout can generate an income you ca n't outlive . This is important because the number one risk in retirement is human longevity . So even if you live past age 100 , your income continues .
end question
start question
medicare-insurance
Do I Qualify For Medicare In Tennessee ?
To see if you qualify for Medicare in Tennessee , you can go to the www.medicare.gov website and answer their little questionnaire . That immediately tells you if you qualify . To qualify for Medicare in Tennessee and the other 49 states in the US , you need to be age 65 and have paid Social Security taxes for at least 10 years . If you have not done that , there are a few other ways you can receive Medicare , with being disabled for 24 months another big reason people qualify for Medicare .
To see if you qualify for Medicare in Tennessee , you can go to the www.medicare.gov website and answer their little questionnaire . That immediately tells you if you qualify . To qualify for Medicare in Tennessee and the other 49 states in the US , you need to be age 65 and have paid Social Security taxes for at least 10 years . If you have not done that , there are a few other ways you can receive Medicare , with being disabled for 24 months another big reason people qualify for Medicare .
This is a totally subjective question because `` best '' can be defined in different ways by different people . Some define it by monthly premium cost , some by the level of benefits , others by the provider network offered and most people define it by some combination of all of these factors . In Tennessee , from a service perspective I would argue there really is no best insurance carrier . I have individual clients and small group clients with all the carriers in this state and from the aspects of paying claims , producing ID cards , having service issues , etc. , no insurance carrier really stands out from the crowd . As far as these aspects of the consumer experience go the insurance carriers have in many ways become a commodity . In the individual health insurance marketplace in Tennessee in 2014 , Blue Cross/Blue Shield of Tennessee will generally enjoy the price advantage in most product categories and age bands . However , especially if a consumer is trying to purchase through the government marketplace -LRB- which as of the April 2nd date I 'm writing this is closed except for people having a change of life status event -RRB- there is definitely a `` buyer beware '' warning I must give . The lowest cost plans you will see will largely be BC/BS plans in the Bronze category and the product designation will often be followed by an `` E '' . The Bronze plans are all high deductible plans , generally $ 4000 to $ 6350 and few , if any have office visit or prescription drug copayment features . This means that in addition to your monthly premium you are paying for virtually all of your health care expenses out-of-pocket until you have met your plan 's deductible . If you 're the lucky type or have a next egg of a few thousand dollars you can always tap into then these plans may be a good fit for your needs . Also , the lowest cost plans with the `` E '' designation use a narrow PPO network which means you have a reduced choice in the doctors and hospitals that are in-network . This arrangement can be especially problematic for persons who live in more rural areas and may find themselves some distance from an in-network hospital for instance . Purchasing health insurance in 2014 and beyond has become more complicated not less . A smart consumer should seek the guidance of an experienced and qualified health insurance agent to guide them to the health insurance plan that best meets their individual needs . Marlin McKelvy Consumer Directed Benefit Solutions www.cdbsagency.com
The major health insurance options in Tennessee are Blue Cross/Blue Shield of Tennessee , AETNA , Assurant Health/John Alden , CIGNA , Humana , StarMark and United Healthcare . These are the major players in both the group and individual health insurance markets . For 2014 they were joined by the Tennessee Health Co-op which is an organization created under a grant from the Federal government to provide an additional option in the government health insurance marketplace . There are a couple of third party administered health insurance products whose policies may be underwritten by Nippon Life or some other insurance company but they represent a very small segment of the marketplace .
No . Major medical insurance is controlled at the state level . For this reason you must purchase major medical insurance from an insurance carrier approved in your state of residence . With the most recent stage of implementation of the Affordable Care Act on January 1 , 2014 this has often resulted in stark contrasts in the cost of individual and small group health insurance depending upon which side of the state line a person or business is domiciled . As an agent in Memphis , Tennessee I can assure you that there are lots of people in Arkansas and Mississippi who wish they could purchase individual health insurance in Tennessee . The cost differences -LRB- which always varied from state to state -RRB- are now substantially different and higher for the residents of Arkansas and Mississippi . That 's not to say health insurance costs are n't higher in Tennessee in 2014 but they did go up far less than in surrounding states . You may have been confused by some politicians talking about allowing the purchase of health insurance policies across state lines . However , this is not how the Affordable Care Act is currently structured . While this idea sounds great on the face of it , it is neither practical nor a real solution for the cost problems individuals and small businesses are being presented with . All health care is local and just as the cost of living and real estate prices are vastly different from New York City to Omaha , Nebraska , the same is true of health care and the health insurance plans tied to it in a given geographic area .
To get a life insurance license in Tennessee you will need to complete any pre-licensing requirements and then take the state insurance license exam and pass . Once you have passed you will be issued your resident producer 's license in Tennessee . You will also be subject to a background check before the state issues your license .
I am not an attorney , but as far as I know a creditor can not garnish disability benefits . The benefits should be protected under the privacy act . I know it to be true for Tennessee and some other states , but I ca n't confirm all 52 states . Verify with an attorney but I am confident the benefits are free from creditors .
Some Medicare Supplement or Medicare Advantage plans offer complimentary membership to facilities that participate in Silver Sneakers , a fitness program for seniors in the United States . The `` Silver Sneakers Benefit '' is not covered by Medicare Part A or Part B. SilverSneakers is owned by Healthways , a well being improvement company headquartered in Tennessee .
The answer to your question will depend upon your age , where you reside in the state of Tennessee and , in some cases , whether you smoke or use tobacco products . The Affordable Care Act effective January 1 , 2014 requires the use of community rating so rates literally vary year by year depending upon a person 's age at time of enrollment . This prevents anyone from giving you a simple answer to your question . The type of health plan you select and whether you might qualify for advanced premium tax subsidies will also effect what your final rate would be . Leaving out the possibility of any premium subsidies an individual could be looking at rates ranging from the low $ 100 's to $ 800 + per month depending upon their age and the insurance carrier and plan design they select .
Medicare Region C includes the states Alabama , Arkansas , Colorado , Florida , Georgia , Louisiana , Mississippi , New Mexico , North Carolina , Oklahoma , South Carolina , Tennessee , Texas , Virginia , West Virginia , Puerto Rico and the US Virgin Islands . This and other regions are designated for the purpose of supplying Durable Medical Equipment -LRB- DME -RRB- for Medicare .
There is no set answer to this question as it will depend upon the size of the employer group and the funding mechanism the employer group uses . After January 1 , 2014 for employer groups with less than 50 employees who are fully insured in many cases the answer will largely depend upon the age of the employee as many insurance carriers have gone to an age banded rating approach -LRB- for example , the employee only rate for a 25 year old will be different than the employee only rate for a 55 year old -RRB- . The rates will also vary significantly depending upon the state where the employer is domiciled -LRB- headquartered -RRB- . And rates will vary depending upon the level of benefits in a given employer 's health plan design . There are also other factors that can effect what a specific group 's employee rate will be . In the Tennessee , Mississippi and Arkansas region in early 2014 employee only rates for group health insurance can range from $ 200 to $ 500 or more per month when you take into account the variables I have listed in the previous paragraph . If you are an employer looking for a definitive answer to this question for your workforce you need to seek out the services of an experienced , qualified health insurance broker who can obtain quotes from a range of health insurance carriers covering a variety of health plan designs . I would be honored to offer my 30 years of industry experience to assist in answering this question for your company .
Do a quick web search for group health insurance agent or employee benefits to find a local health insurance broker . Web sites such as NetQuote.com and BuyerZone.com can also help connect you with an insurance broker . Generally the group health insurance companies do n't engage in much direct selling , especially to the small & medium sized business marketplace and if you do try to go directly to a group health insurance carrier you must understand they can only talk to you about their products regardless of whether their products are the best fit for your particular needs . Finding a competent , experienced and up-to-date health insurance broker is more important than ever after all the changes to the health insurance environment after the January 1st , 2014 implementation of the latest requirements of the Affordable Care Act . The insurance carriers a layperson might assume would be the best value based upon past exposure may , in fact , be the worst value in our new environment . You need to find an insurance professional who is more than just a shopping service . There are new financing concepts being introduced to help employers mitigate the premium shock caused by the Affordable Care Act and , depending upon the composition and income levels of your work force , group health insurance may not necessarily even be the best solution for your employee benefits platform . For assistance in Tennessee , Arkansas and Mississippi feel free to contact me for advice .
Dave Ramsey is a big fan of buy term life insurance and invest the rest . He cut his teeth with Priamerica here in Tennessee and the philosophy has stayed with him since he started his Financial Peace University located here in Brentwood , TN . From his radio show he usually recommends a 20 year level term which for most people is a good choice . I recommend using an independent broker to purchase the right coverage at the right price for your unique situation . Peggy is correct most of us do exactly the same as the broker Dave recommends with the same life insurance carriers .
To be licensed in Tennessee requires 32 hours of classroom study or an online equivalent . There are several companies to choose from . You will need to be finger printed and pass a background check free of felonies , theft and violence . Then you must pass a written exam at a designated testing facility located in all of the metropolitan areas of the state . I recommend taking your health exam at the same time in order to cross license in other states . Good luck !
From an experienced , licensed , independent Life & Health insurance agent who is certified to sell health insurance products on the government health insurance marketplace and directly from health insurance carriers in your state . Do an internet search , ask your friends or a financial advisor or CPA , this should help you find a reputable health insurance specialist . Making an informed decision on purchasing the health insurance plan that best fits your needs and budget has never been more complicated . There can be much more involved that just looking at the high points of the benefit plan design and the monthly premium . While HealthCare.gov and the state based marketplaces have improved , there are many important issues that the average consumer can and generally does miss in this environment . Purchasing health insurance online is not like getting a hotel room . If you are a resident of Tennessee , Arkansas or Mississippi please feel free to contact me for assistance .
PPO is not a type of health insurance . It is an abbreviation for Preferred Provider Organization -LRB- PPO -RRB- which describes the network provider contracting approach associated with whatever health insurance plan you are purchasing . PPO network based health insurance products have dominated the marketplace for many years so it is not unusual for the consumer to blend the two . After January 1 , 2014 you will want to have your health insurance agent check for you , or if you are a `` do it yourselfer `` do someresearching online to determine the type of provider network associated with health plans you may be interested in . The traditional features of PPO plan designs have been to have office visit & prescription copayments , lower deductibles , higher co-insurance levels and lower out-of-pocket financial exposure for using in-network PPO providers while still having coverage for voluntary usage of non-network providers at reduced benefit levels . PPO plans are the dominant network arrangement in the current health insurance marketplace . However , changes brought about by the Affordable Care Act -LRB- ObamaCare -RRB- , are causing insurance carriers to re-design their products and this does extend to the design of their provider networks . This is especially true of the health insurance products sold in the government health insurance marketplaces where the consumer may encounter multiple network or sub-network type provider arrangements in this environment . For instance , here in Tennessee , the BC/BS plan offers essentially the same insurance products with pricing based on your choice of 3 different PPO networks at 3 different price points . The larger the PPO provider network you choose the higher the insurance premium associated with the product . In fact , the smallest of the 3 BC/BS network options is offered only in the government marketplace . So , these are words of caution , there are degrees of difference even within what are technically PPO based products these days . Do n't just assume that a provider is going to be in-network with an insurance carrier based upon your past experience . Verify with both the insurance carrier and the doctor 's office that they are a participating provider . Also , especially in the individual health insurance marketplace starting in 2014 , you will want to be aware of the growing move back to Point-of-Service -LRB- POS -RRB- , Health Maintenance Organization -LRB- HMO -RRB- and Accountable Care Organization -LRB- ACO -RRB- based provider delivery systems associated with a growing number of health insurance products . These other variations on the theme apply more stringent guidelines to provider access in a variety of ways -LRB- reduced network sizes , gate keeper referral arrangements , sharply reduced or no out-of-network coverage -RRB- and introduce entirely new considerations for the consumer .
To get a life insurance license in Tennessee , you must take a course of study , then pass a test covering that material . If you plan to sell variable products in addition to Term , Whole and Universal Life , you must also procure a securities license through the same process of study and testing .
Fixed and indexed annuities in Tennessee can be sold by agents licensed in life insurance . Some life insurance agencies specialize in annuities , so call ahead to make sure you are getting choices from a number of carriers , and that you get sound advice . Agents who sell variable annuities must also be licensed in securities .
First , check with your college 's office of student affairs or administration and see if they have a student health insurance plan . Due to the requirements of ObamaCare many of these plans have been cancelled or are being phased out but some do still exist . Next , you can be covered as a dependent on your parent 's health insurance policy until age 26 so if you have recently lost or will be losing coverage when you start school you could possibly be added onto their plan . Regarding true major medical individual health insurance you are pretty well locked out until the next open enrollment period starting on November 15th and the earliest you could be covered would be January 1 , 2015 . This is unless you have what is called a change of life status event -LRB- marriage , divorce , child birth or adoption , losing other coverage -RRB- in which case you have a 60-day time frame to apply for individual health insurance coverage . If you are in good health and coverage for any pre-existing health conditions is not a major concern for you then the best solution for immediate coverage would be to apply for a short term medical insurance policy . These policies are pretty affordable and depending upon the insurance carrier they may issue a policy that runs for a period just short of one year and you can often reapply for coverage . If you reside in Tennessee , Arkansas or Mississippi contact me and I 'll be happy to help you out with this . If you reside in another state seek out a health insurance broker or go online and do a search for Short Term Medical . Assurant Health and United Healthcare/Golden Rule have pretty good short term policies and , of course , you would want to check with the Blue Cross/Blue Shield plan in your state . Other than Medicaid that pretty well sums up your options as a student .
Congratulations ! You have asked the question that millions of Americans are struggling with and will be struggling with for years to come . Without being self-serving to my industry , find yourself an experienced and well qualified health insurance agent to shop the market for you and to explain the fine details of the options available to you . The Affordable Care Act -LRB- ObamaCare -RRB- has accomplished what many thought impossible - making health insurance more expensive and even more complicated to understand than it already was . Buying health insurance online , whether it 's through the government marketplaces or private sites , is not like shopping around for the best deal on a hotel room or an airplane ticket . You will encounter a bizarre world of seemingly similar looking insurance products with wildly different prices or similarly priced products with wildly different benefit designs . I guide people through this maze and it really does n't matter if they have a 10th grade education or a PhD , they are amazed at the subtle differences I have to point out that make the real differences in the health insurance products they purchase . For example , one insurance carrier here in Tennessee offers identical insurance products in the government marketplace but has three different PPO network options attached to them . The average person would look at these products , determine that the benefits are the same and so why not pick the one with the lowest monthly premium ? What they have painfully learned later is that they have enrolled in a health plan with a very narrow network of doctors , hospitals and pharmacies . The hospital a few miles from their house that they assumed was in-network because it is part of the overall health system they have been familiar with in the past turns out not to be included in this narrow network product and instead they may have to go across town or to another county -LRB- in more rural areas -RRB- to go to an in-network hospital . Another major carrier uses terms like `` Local Preferred '' and `` National Preferred '' to differentiate their products . A quick scan of the benefit summaries reveals only slight differences in office visit & prescription copays , deductibles and out-of-pocket maximums but unless you really dig deep you wo n't be able to figure out one limits your pharmacy choices significantly while the other does not . Other insurance companies whose plans people have been familiar with and even enrolled in for years have found that these company 's products have transformed into products that now require primary care referrals for visits to specialists and other services or that they provide little or no coverage outside of their immediate geographic area . Just this week I spent about 3 hours explaining his different options to a man in his early 30 's who is smart enough to run his own business and who has been my customer for 6 years . The next morning he had his mother call me so I could explain the same things to her so she could help him feel good about his final decision . This is the reality of what the average consumer is now faced with in today 's health insurance marketplace . My advice , it 's a jungle out there . Do n't go in without a trained guide and beware of these so called `` navigators '' and `` assistants '' they are unlicensed , poorly trained -LRB- perhaps good intentioned -RRB- individuals who can do little more than read the same material on a computer that you can see .
end question
start question
life-insurance
How Much Does Guaranteed Life Insurance Cost ?
Guaranteed Life Insurance costs approximately $ 150/month for $ 25,000 of Whole Life for a 60 year old male . Guaranteed issue life insurance usually is whole life and is graded during the first 2-3 years . Some will raise prices periodically , or when they raise them for the rest of the group . Others will lock in the same premium for life .
The cost of life insurance can range from a few dollars per month to many thousands per month . The real question is how much would it cost you to get the proper policy for your situation . In order to find that out you need to first determine how much death benefit you need . The best way to calculate how much life insurance you need is by doing a comprehensive needs analysis . If you are looking for a quick rule-of-thumb , we recommend you carry at least ten times your annual income in life insurance . The second factor is how long do you think you will need the coverage . You might want life insurance to cover your mortgage which will be paid off in a certain period of time , or you might want life insurance just until your children are grown and self supporting . Maybe you want to have life insurance for whenever you die , be it next year or when you 're 90 . The third key factor is your budget . You might like the idea of a large permanent life insurance policy , but the premium may simply be more than you can reasonably afford . So in order to determine how much life insurance costs per month , you need to figure out how much life insurance you need , how long you need it and what your budget allows . By going through this process you can determine how much the proper life insurance policy for you will cost .
This is what 's known as Universal Life insurance . These are permanent coverage programs that build cash value , much like Whole Life insurance does . The advantage of these programs is that you can pay more or pay less each month to keep the coverage going . However , when you do this , you can affect the guarantees -LRB- and even the non-guaranteed aspects -RRB- under the programs . There are two important factors to keep in mind when structuring a universal life policy , the guaranteed and non-guaranteed side . In short , the guaranteed side tells you how long your coverage is guaranteed for while the non-guaranteed side tells you how long it can continue on for , based on current assumptions -LRB- these figures can change and , therefore , the non-guaranteed length of coverage can change -RRB- . There 's also what 's called a Guaranteed Universal Life insurance policy -LRB- GUL -RRB- . These programs can create a level premium and death benefit guaranteed to a specific age -LRB- all the way up to age 121 with most carriers to guarantee the death benefit for life -RRB- . What this does is allows you to keep the premiums to its lowest levels and maximize the death benefit rather than placing the focus on the build-up of cash value , which is a common reason why many people buy whole life insurance . There are other moving parts in a universal life insurance policy , but this provides a brief overview .
There really is n't a right answer for this , there is only your answer for you . There are numerous software programs that you can plug into and it will spit out a number and you can choose to follow that program . Is it correct or exact ? Unfortunately the anwer is yes , no or maybe depending on the individual . I tend to individualize my approach to `` how much life insurance I need ? '' when thinking about how much coverage to get . The first or base level of coverage I consider is simply this `` if I did n't wake up tomorrow , how much money would put things at $ 0 . ? '' This is my starting point or minimum level of coverage I would consider . From there , I would start adding based on answers to questions posed like ; Does my spouse work ? Would extra money help in a transition to work ? How old are my children ? Do I want to have something for college set aside for them ? Who can do for my family what I can do if something breaks and I 'm not there ? What would that cost ? If the main person who does the childcare passes , how much would I need to help with that cost ? You can look at your own situation and bring different questions and costs to the mix too ! Then much like the purchase of lumber for a project you figure the amount plus 10 % extra for just in case . This may be why some just say 5X income or 10X income as answers . The assumption is all those questions would be answered and then some . The big thing is do n't let what ever number you come up with discourage you from getting life insurance . Some is always , always better than none .
-- > Normal 0 How much will it cost to rebuild your home should it be damaged or destroyed ? I doubt anyone can give you the correct answer because the cost to rebuild your home will vary considerably depending on how it is damaged . If your home is the only one damaged in your area , for instance a fire in the home , the cost to rebuild will be one number . And if a number of homes in your area are damaged or destroyed , for instance a storm or wild fire , the cost to rebuild could be significantly more as materials , labor and contractors may be in short supply and cost much more . So how does one address that possibility ? Some , not all , insurance companies offer a Guaranteed Dwelling Replacement Cost feature that can be added to your policy . Under this feature , you are required to purchase an amount of insurance consistent with the current cost to rebuild your home at normal prices . If your home needs to be rebuilt following a loss , the amount of insurance will automatically increase to whatever you need to rebuild the same home you had before the loss . That is the only way I know of to always buy the right amount of insurance , get one that adjusts to changing loss conditions . Otherwise , its just a guessing game and if you are wrong , you lose , not the insurance company .
We 've entered into a new phase of the development for covering the risk of having to pay for long-term care costs and therefore , a new phase of designing coverage . The consumer does n't have to pay a fortune for at least some coverage , but expectations over how much risk one can afford to transfer to an insurance company may require some reality therapy.A base plan for a couple can cost around $ 3,000 - $ 5,000 per year depending on age . The design is simple : a fixed pool of money with as much access to it -LRB- maximum daily or monthly benefit -RRB- that one can afford . There is no accommodation for inflation and no riders , except perhaps the `` monthly home care '' rider which if not part of the contract should be added . It does n't cost much as a rider . The pool should be around $ 300,000 , if possible.A value plan for a couple can cost between $ 5,000 and $ 7,000 per year . The design includes the lowest cost inflation rider , monthly home care rider -LRB- if not included in the base plan -RRB- and maybe survivor waiver of premium . The pool of money to pay care costs and daily/monthly access to it should be as much as can reasonably afforded.A premium plan -LRB- which we used to illustrate routinely five years ago -RRB- for a couple can run from $ 9,000 - $ 14,000 / yr . depending on which combination of bells and whistles you want and can afford . This design would include one of the automatic annual 5 % compounded or simple benefit increase riders . Available riders could include shared-care , spousal waiver of premium , 0-day elimination for home care , non-forfeiture rider , and/or return of premium . Other riders , depending on the carrier , may be available . NOTE : This design is most likely to experience in force premium increases over time due to the uncapped benefit increase rider.For a single person , drop the above range of numbers down $ 1,000 for the base plan , $ 2,000 for the value plan , and $ 3,000 - $ 4,000 for the premium plan.These are all VERY ROUND numbers . The point is that columns and articles in the press recently have only looked at the old way of thinking about long-term care . It 's pointless to dredge up old statements by insurance companies which at the time reflected their ignorance of a -RRB- how many people would actually use their policies , b -RRB- how many would keep them in force if premiums rose - the lapse ratio is 1-2 % , about the lowest in the insurance industry - adjusting their benefits to stay in the game , and c -RRB- how few people would buy long-term care insurance - the percentage of Americans owning their own coverage is about 7-8 % and holding.The probability of needing to pay for some or all of the costs of extended professional care at home or in a facility is still relatively high as we live longer , but not necessarily better . No LTC insurance policy can promise to pay all care costs , but is anyone going to be turn away a payment from an insurance company that covers half of those costs?Some coverage is better than none .
Guaranteed premium life insurance is a life insurance policy in which you get a contractual guarantee that the premium will not change . It will not increase , and it will not decrease . That is a very good deal . You do not want to have to worry about your premium changing . This product is , after all , supposed to be the foundation of your financial portfolio . As such , it should be dependable . Virtually all life insurance products available now provide premium guarantees . Its really just a question of how long the guarantee will last . Term insurance gives you guarantees for a specified amount of time . Could be 10 years , 15 , 20 , 30 , etc. . After that , watch out . The price could go skyhigh . Universal life could also give you guarantees for a specified amount of time . The interesting thing about this product is that since it has a flexible premium , you can determine how long you want that guarantee . It could last from a few years , to your lifetime . You can kind of make it function as permanent term insurance . No guaranteed cash accumulation , but a lifetime guarantee on the premium . And on the death benefit , by the way . Whole life typically comes with a lifetime guarantee on the premium . Thats the way the product is designed . I think you can appreciate that the longer you want the guarantee , the higher will be the premium . You get what you pay for . There you go . What else do you need to know ?
The same companies that carry Term Life Insurance often carry Universal Life Insurance , and most agencies that sell Term also sell UL . When purchasing online , you will want to work with a licensed agent who has some experience , so they will understand the in 's and out 's of Universal Life . There are several types of Universal Life Insurance . Guaranteed UL allows you to lock in a level premium that will guarantee the policy to pay the death benefit to a certain age . This guarantee might be 20 years from now ; it might be to age 121 , or something different . It is important to select a guarantee to avoid the problems Universal Life presented in the past , when people bought while interest rates were high , and their policies started lapsing much earlier than anticipated when interest rates dropped . There are also many Universal Life policies that do not have `` no lapse '' guarantees . How long your coverage last relies on what the interest rate and cost of insurance are at any given time . Variable Universal Life allows you to invest in the stock market , with the potential for more growth -LRB- and more loss -RRB- than other UL policies . Indexed Universal Life allows you to take advantage of some modest gains by allocating premium to equity index accounts . While it does not have as much cash growth potential as VUL , it has much more protection from losses . Added to these are Survivor Universal Life policies off all types . These cover two people , and pay when the second person dies . Again , you 'll want to use an experienced agent when you buy UL . There are many knowledgeable agents on this website who can help you .
Whole Life and Universal Life are the two main types of permanent insurance coverage -LRB- there are sub-categories with in that - e.g. guaranteed universal life , current assumption universal life , indexed universal life , participating whole life , non-participating whole life , and others -RRB- . Permanent life insurance , in general , is designed to provide coverage for the rest of the insured 's life and build cash value . Universal life insurance features a flexible premium structure It 's , in short , a blend between term life insurance and whole life insurance . A universal life policy will guarantee the maximum death benefit for the lowest possible premium -LRB- making it much less expensive than a whole life policy with the same death benefit -RRB- . Like with whole life insurance , universal life will build cash value , although it will generally not accumulate as much cash value over the life of the policy as a comparable whole life policy it is essentially term insurance to age 121 , with the emphasis on a larger death benefit instead of greater cash value for the premium that you are paying . Universal life is ideal for anyone who wants to maximize the death benefit and is n't worried about building cash value . You can guarantee benefits up to age 121 -LRB- with most companies -RRB- - these policies can be structured to dial down the death benefit to a specific age as well -LRB- e.g. to age 90 , 95 , 100 , 105 , etc. -RRB- , which can reduce your premium by a good margin . Whole life insurance is a great vehicle for planning for the future . The premiums and death benefit remain fixed and guaranteed for life while the policy can build cash value at a great rate - this structure is known as a non-participating whole life policy . The other type is called participating whole life policy . Participating WL policies can pay out dividends which can be used in several ways : 1 -RRB- Decrease the premium - the premium would eventually hit $ 0 at some point and the policy would , in essence , be self-sustaining meaning the dividend is equal to or greater than the premium for the program -LRB- if greater , the difference can be used to increase the cash value or increase the death benefit -RRB- 2 -RRB- Purchasing paid-up additions - these additions increase the face amount of the policy 3 -RRB- Increase the cash value at a faster rate While whole life has many advantages , it is also the most expensive form of life insurance . Whole life features level premiums and death benefits and builds cash value at a faster rate than Universal life policies - the trade off between is that to increase the cash value faster , the premiums will be substantially higher -LRB- can often be 2-3x the premiums of guaranteed universal life policies on many occasions -RRB- . Please note , regardless of the permanent coverage type , the carrier takes back the cash value upon the death of the insured , and pays out the death benefit proceeds . Therefore , guaranteed Universal life policies allow you to maximize your death benefit and minimize your premium dollars that you pay for the coverage . I hope the information is helpful - please feel free to contact me for assistance with your life insurance coverage needs , including quotes and policy comparisons , and if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
Annual renewable term life insurance means that the premiums for a policy are not guaranteed and will increase each year -LRB- based on age -RRB- by a good margin -LRB- often a substantial increase -RRB- even though you can technically keep it going til the coverage end date -LRB- e.g. 95 -RRB- . In short , you likely would not keep the policy going beyond the first couple years -LRB- if at all -RRB- due to the sheer expense of the program . When you 're buying term life insurance , you want to set up a policy that features a level term guarantee -LRB- meaning you 're paying the same premium for a set number of years - e.g. 10 years , 15 , years , 20 years , 25 years , or 30 years -RRB- . The longer the term guarantee , the better -LRB- even though it does cost more to secure a longer term guarantee , it can provide much more cost savings over time the longer you live -RRB- . If you want to guarantee the premium remain fixed and guaranteed for the rest of your life , you would want to set up a permanent insurance policy -LRB- either a universal life or whole life poilcy , depending on coverage needs -RRB- . I hope the information is helpful - please feel free to contact me for help with your coverage and if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
How much Variable Universal Life costs you depends on a number of factors , some are flexible , some are not . Universal life is a complex product that unbundles the components of a whole life policy to provide you with more control and flexibility . The basic building blocks are cost of insurance , expense charges and investment earnings . There are a number of death benefit options available which affect the cost of insurance . For example you can have a level death benefit or level insurance plus cash value . The cost of insurance can be annually increasing for life , annual increasing then paid up at 85 , level and a number of other options that vary by company . The expense portion of the premium is stated in the policy . Some expenses are fixed and guaranteed others are variable so you would need to refer to the policy for details . In Canada , the earnings inside a universal life policy are always expressed as interest . Some policies have 400 + investment options that , in addition to Guaranteed Interest , can mirror the performance -LRB- positive or negative -RRB- of a variety of mutual funds in a tax preferred environment . I say mirror , because you do not actually own units in the particular mutual fund , just the performance . In Canada , the total maximum premium to keep the policy exempt for accrual taxation is set by the government . This provides you with flexibility , it is important that you understand that if the the policy is underfunded it could go out of force . The policy needs to be managed . So how much does Variable Universal Life Cost ? It depends . An independent life insurance broker , representing several companies , can help you find the right policy at the right price . If you have further question , or feel tat I could be of assistance , please do not hesitate to contact me .
Whole Life and Universal Life are the two main types of permanent insurance coverage -LRB- there are sub-categories with in that - e.g. guaranteed universal life , current assumption universal life , indexed universal life , participating whole life , non-participating whole life , and others -RRB- . Permanent life insurance , in general , is designed to provide coverage for the rest of the insured 's life and build cash value . Universal life insurance features a flexible premium structure It 's , in short , a blend between term life insurance and whole life insurance . A universal life policy will guarantee the maximum death benefit for the lowest possible premium -LRB- making it much less expensive than a whole life policy with the same death benefit -RRB- . Like with whole life insurance , universal life will build cash value , although it will generally not accumulate as much cash value over the life of the policy as a comparable whole life policy it is essentially term insurance to age 121 , with the emphasis on a larger death benefit instead of greater cash value for the premium that you are paying . Universal life is ideal for anyone who wants to maximize the death benefit and is n't worried about building cash value . You can guarantee benefits up to age 121 -LRB- with most companies -RRB- - these policies can be structured to dial down the death benefit to a specific age as well -LRB- e.g. to age 90 , 95 , 100 , 105 , etc. -RRB- , which can reduce your premium by a good margin . Whole life insurance is a great vehicle for planning for the future . The premiums and death benefit remain fixed and guaranteed for life while the policy can build cash value at a great rate - this structure is known as a non-participating whole life policy . The other type is called participating whole life policy . Participating WL policies can pay out dividends which can be used in several ways : 1 -RRB- Decrease the premium - the premium would eventually hit $ 0 at some point and the policy would , in essence , be self-sustaining meaning the dividend is equal to or greater than the premium for the program -LRB- if greater , the difference can be used to increase the cash value or increase the death benefit -RRB- 2 -RRB- Purchasing paid-up additions - these additions increase the face amount of the policy 3 -RRB- Increase the cash value at a faster rate While whole life has many advantages , it is also the most expensive form of life insurance . Whole life features level premiums and death benefits and builds cash value at a faster rate than Universal life policies - the trade off between is that to increase the cash value faster , the premiums will be substantially higher -LRB- can often be 2-3x the premiums of guaranteed universal life policies on many occasions -RRB- . Please note , regardless of the permanent coverage type , the carrier takes back the cash value upon the death of the insured , and pays out the death benefit proceeds . Therefore , guaranteed Universal life policies allow you to maximize your death benefit and minimize your premium dollars that you pay for the coverage . I hope the information is helpful - please feel free to contact me for assistance with your coverage and if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
This varies for each person . A lot of variables go into the calculation of determining how much life insurance you need , how long you need it , and what is an appropriate amount to actually secure . A life insurance calculator can help with this . A few things to get you started when calculating out what you need and how long you need it for are : 1 -RRB- Do you have a mortgage ? If so , how much is left on it and how many more years do you have to go until it 's paid off ? 2 -RRB- Any final expenses you want paid off -LRB- e.g. burial expenses , credit card debt , medical bills -RRB- ? 3 -RRB- Education expenses for you or a family member you want to pay off -LRB- such as college tuition -RRB- 4 -RRB- Income replacement - this is a big one ! A question to think about here is how much income would be needed if you died today and how long would your family need it to maintain their current lifestyle . An experienced life insurance broker can help you with this and make it a much smoother , easier process . I hope the information is helpful - please feel free to contact me for help and if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
This varies for each person . A lot of variables go into the calculation of determining how much life insurance you need , how long you need it , and what is an appropriate amount to actually secure . A life insurance calculator can help with this . A few things to get you started when calculating out what you need and how long you need it for are : 1 -RRB- Do you have a mortgage ? If so , how much is left on it and how many more years do you have to go until it 's paid off ? 2 -RRB- Any final expenses you want paid off -LRB- e.g. burial expenses , credit card debt , medical bills -RRB- ? 3 -RRB- Education expenses for you or a family member you want to pay off -LRB- such as college tuition -RRB- 4 -RRB- Income replacement - this is a big one ! A question to think about here is how much income would be needed if you died today and how long would your family need it to maintain their current lifestyle . An experienced life insurance broker can help you with this and make it a much smoother , easier process . One thing to also note , a lot of people think `` once i 'm retired , I wo n't need life insurance anymore so I can just buy term insurance and let it go when I retire '' - there are many many many reasons why you should have life insurance during your retirement years . For example , if you 're receiving a retirement pension and you die , the pension income may stop and not continue onto your spouse -LRB- if you chose the pension max option over the survivorship option when you started receiving benefits -RRB- - this can also apply to social security income . That 's just one scenario . Please feel free to contact me for help and if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
Consumers should become as knowledgeable as the can be about the risk of taking too long to die . For starters , find out what the costs for care are in the area in which you intend to retire and/or spend the latter part of your life . Call local care facilities and home care services and request a listing of costs for each facility and level of care . You can also get an idea of not only today 's estimated costs but what those costs might be in the future by going to this website : WEBSITELINK . Click on the state you want , then use the down arrow on the left side of the page to find the locale within that state that corresponds to your latter-years living area . Then , click on `` Future Costs '' to see how much the same care might cost when you need it , years from now . Understand that no long-term care insurance policy can possibly guarantee that it will pay all of your health care costs after the point that you ca n't take care of yourself any longer regardless of how high a premium you pay . Consult with an experienced insurance agent that specializes in long-term care . It is a specialty . Most agents that are licensed to sell it do n't know very much at all about it . If it happens to you , statistics are useless . But , here are a few that you should know when assessing if you want to buy insurance and how much of it would be worth the outlay in premium : - The average claim lasts about 24-26 months -LRB- i.e. the insured dies -RRB- - Of those that go beyond that period of time , over 90 % of claims are settled within five years . - To date , I believe that the record for a single claim is just over $ 1.4 MM . - Take projections of future cost with a grain of salt because it is not known what new medical technologies will come along , nor is it known what new care strategies might be available 20-40 years out . If you can afford the premiums on a $ 300/day , 2-year pool of money -LRB- it could last longer than that -RRB- with no inflation rider on the policy today , you can probably afford some type of long-term care policy . If not , it is a waste of money to buy any insurance policy that you ca n't afford now and know you wo n't be able to afford it in the future .
You need to get at least as much coverage as the insurance carrier says is required to rebuild your home . Insurance carriers will provide a calculation of how much it should cost to rebuild the home in a certain area . If you go below that amount then there could be penalties in how much the insurance company will pay out . On a related note , you should obtain a guaranteed replacement cost increase . This guarantees that you will get an extra amount of coverage -LRB- usually a percentage of your current coverage -RRB- to rebuild your home in the case of a catastrophic loss . This way , if you want to rebuild on a nice piece of land , you will not be stuck fronting more money in order to get back to where you were . In summary , never low ball your coverage to save money because you will end up paying out-of-pocket to get back to the status quo .
Most carriers will only issue a policy for a face amount equal to or less than the amount of coverage you have on your spouse . So you 've got to think about how much coverage your spouse has , what debts you need/want paid off , do you need it for income replacement , . etc. . Many people think that if their spouse does not produce an income , then they do not need coverage . This is the wrong way to look at it . Just because a spouse may be a stay-at-home mom or dad , does n't mean they do n't need coverage . In many homes , a stay-at-home spouse often maintains the house , the yard , buys the groceries , cooks , etc. . If the spouse passed away , would you do these tasks ? Or would you pay to have someone else do them ? Are you going to do them yourself ? All of these factor into the decisions . In short , while a stay-at-home spouse may not generate income , he/she may greatly reduce personal expenses . How much does that total up to over a given number of years ? It 's helpful to consult with an experienced broker who can help you determine how much coverage is suitable to your needs and budget . Please feel free to contact me for help or if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
The purpose of whole life insurance is to provide guarantees . You know what ? It does a very good job at this . Guarantees are a godsend in a financial world in which cycles and ups and downs and cost increases are the norm . Its nice to have a product you can truly count on . These guarantees come in three delicious flavors : Flavor number one : a guaranteed premium . As you get older , your price stays the same . As it costs more for the company to insure you , your price stays the same . If the company has a bad investment year , or two , or three , your price stays the same . Thats good . But theres more . Flavor number two : a guaranteed death benefit . You see all those variables mentioned in number one above that could affect your price but dont ? They could also affect your death benefit . But they dont . Neither your age , nor their increasing cost , nor their poor investment performance can reduce the benefit you were leaving to your heirs . That is really good . But we have one last delicious flavor : Flavor number three : a guaranteed cash accumulation . Do yourself a favor and compare the guaranteed growth of cash inside a good whole life contract with other so-called guaranteed investments out there . You will notice that whole life basically beats the pants off the competition in this regard . Of course , you always have to be wise about taking money out of life insurance , and make sure you dont reduce your death benefit to an undesirable amount . But given that , whole life can make a real valuable contribution to the conservative portion of your financial portfolio .
Yes . Whole life is a permanent life insurance . The premium and the death benefit can be guaranteed for your entire lifetime . So can the cash value . This makes the product an extremely competitive cash accumulation vehicle for the conservative part of your portfolio . And why would you want the premium and the death benefit to be permanently guaranteed ? Well , imagine yourself buying term insurance and then outliving the policy . Now you need to buy another one . And youre older , so the price is automatically higher . And what if you unfortunately have a serious medical condition ? The price could be even higher . Worse , you may not qualify for coverage at all ! Permanent insurance means you permanently dont have to worry about qualifying for coverage . Whole life does that very well . But remember this : these guarantees come at a big cost . Especially the guaranteed cash value . What if you like the idea of permanent guarantees , but want to spend less on the coverage ? You do have an option : guaranteed universal life insurance . You can get the premium and the death benefit guaranteed for your lifetime at least until age 121 :-RRB- . You just wont have any cash guaranteed to grow inside the policy . Guaranteed universal life is also permanent insurance . Its a cheaper version of whole life , without the cash . Kind of like permanent term insurance .
When I talk to a potential client about life insurance I generally will have a 2 part discussion . The first is identifying how much insurance you need . Taking into account replacing income , the mortgage , credit cards and other debt such as student loans , etc. . Then we figure out the cost between a term or period of time you need the insurance for example , if you have kids in school at home which you probably should have more insurance than after they have moved out along with your long-term needs . At this point , we will know what the cost is . Can you afford this ? Does it make sense and fall in line with your budget ? The second part is taking your budget and determining how much you care afford of that total amount . The reason I use this approach is I believe it is important for you to know how much you need versus how much you can afford . That way you at least know the short-fall you have and can work to filling that gap if possible or make other adjustments which may allow you to afford more .
end question
start question
life-insurance
Does Life Insurance Check Your Credit ?
Unless you are applying for a very large policy , credit is not usually an issue when it come to life insurance . The only reason a company may check credit is to determine affordability and the need for a large policy . I have never had a credit issue with an application for life insurance .
Life insurance will check to see if you are in bankruptcy or working on a settlement plan , and this could involve checking your credit , as I have found out by experience . It takes a large policy and a very poor credit record for it to be a problem . Even in the midst of bankruptcies there are policies that can be purchased .
I can only speak for the company 's that I have had personal dealings with , but I believe almost every company uses credit score as part of its rating equation . The credit check that an insurance company does is different from what a financial institution does.The check that the insurance companies perform is called a softcheck which should not affect your scoring with financial institutions to the best of my understanding . Laws change from time to time at both state and federal level . If the credit check is of concern to you , call your local agent and express this and they can advise of the current implecations of an insurance credit check -LRB- softpull -RRB- .
The short answer is NO ! This is a question commonly asked by clients , especially those that are looking for new insurance on a car or house they are wanting to finance . Every inquiry , they people are told , can lower their credit and could affect the interest rate on the final loan . While this is a general statement that is often true , it is very broad and non-specific and overlooks certain key details that you need to know . Keep in mind there are two different types of credit inquires : hard inquiries and soft inquiries . Maybe you have heard of these by different names , but here is what I mean by hard and soft credit pulls . A hard inquiry is one where you are looking to obtain a line of credit such as through an auto finance company , a store credit card at a retail store like BestBuy or Sears , a gas card at your Shell gas station , a mortgage -LRB- new purchase or refinance -RRB- , and sometimes when opening a utility in your name -LRB- though not always -RRB- or trying to rent a property . Every time you apply for credit , the underwriters -LRB- people who decide to extend you credit , how much and at what interest rate -RRB- can see the inquiries AND some of the FICO score models are about 10 % composed by the number of inquiries that you have . Basically , the more credit you apply for the riskier you become because you either are getting declined and the new company wants to know why , or you are getting a lot of credit and the next company has concerns that you can pay all of this new credit at once . Therefore , it is important that you keep all the inquires to a minimum when possible -LRB- less than 2 is ideal , zero being the most preferred . -RRB- A general rule is that you have to authorize someone to look at your credit for a hard inquiry . Conversely , a soft inquiry is what companies use when they are looking at credit but not offering a line of credit to you directly . This is what most utility companies use to make sure you dont have specific items on your credit report they are looking for when considering opening an account in your name ; they usually are looking for late-pays and other items but not necessarily your credit score . NOBODY sees these inquiries except for the individual when pulling up their credit report -LRB- which can be done for free once a year . -RRB- So you might get a credit report and see 2 inquiries -LRB- one for the credit card you applied for and the other for a car you tried to refinance -RRB- but then another 5-10 other inquires you arent even familiar with . These could include the credit card companies sending you pre-approval letters to apply for a new credit card or utility companies when you moved to your new apartment . Dont panic as these dont affect your score . With that being said , which one of these inquires is insurance ? Insurance is a soft inquiry that does not affect your credit score . If you talk to an independent agent when buying a house , you could see multiple soft inquiries on your credit report from companies like ASI , The Hartford , Safeco , Erie , Kemper , Foremost , Mercury , and many other companies . This is because each of these companies wants to know your credit-worthiness or financial responsibility because it has a direct relationship with you paying insurance on time AND with the number of claims that you file -LRB- better credit means less claims as a general trend -RRB- . So dont be afraid to get a quote for insurance . Your loan officer or bank manager or whomever is right in saying dont apply for new lines of credit or anything that pulls as a hard inquiry , since that affects your score . However , getting an insurance quote for home , auto , life , or health insurance doesnt affect your credit at all . Dont forget to pull your credit report once a year from the 3 major credit bureaus . You will probably see your new insurance company on there . However , insurance companies wouldnt pull credit if it wasnt important to make sure to review your credit once a year and verify everything is accurate . The only official website is annualcreditreport.com so go there for your free reports .
If there is a carrier that does not credit check it is more than likely priced higher than a carrier that does credit check . Credit score is only one factor amongst many that are used to calculate the rate that an insured will be charged for the automobile insurance that they are seeking .
The reason is just liked mentioned above . To see if they will get paid and how responsible are you . I have this questioned asked when someone is looking for full coverage and what surprises is the everyone check your credit . Buying an I phone ? Buying a car ? Leasing a Car ? Renting an Apartment ? Buying a home or condo ? Asking for a Loan ? . So out of everything i just mentioned the only thing that pays out in the event of an occurrence is Insurance . So why would n't they check your credit ? Remember when your asking for a quote online or over the phone and they say `` we have to run a financial responsibility check '' that 's a soft check that the company is doing . Almost every carrier that i represent now and have represented across five states in the past check credit . My suggestion to you is let the agent or company know if that the issue so they can tell you upfront if you qualify or not . Thank you and good luck .
When you apply to buy insurance , most insurance companies will take your credit into consideration . It is considered a `` soft hit '' . It will show up on your credit history that there was an inquiry , it does n't change or effect your credit . So whatever your credit score was before you apply for insurance is what it will be after applying . To my knowledge , California is one of the states that mandates insurance companies not take a person 's credit history into consideration when rating the premium . You can check with an insurance agent or broker licensed in your state to see if your state as the same rules .
Life insurance underwriters do not bother to check credit on smaller policies , but they may check credit on policies with a large face amount or large premiums . If the credit score is extremely bad , the policy may be postponed until some attempts have made to improve one 's credit score .
Generally not . While many companies now run credit checks it usually is not really going to affect your credit score a great deal . It will show up as an inquiry . Insurance companies utilize what is called an insurance credit score . This is a little different than your regular credit score . Your credit history is just a part of your total insurance score .
Some insurance carriers may use a credit score for rating purposes . Most of the insurance carriers in my state -LRB- New York -RRB- use a ` credit profile ' which means they access one of the big three credit bureaus and select specific items . What they select , how they interpret the data , and how it affects your premiums is not available for your scrutiny . In NY , credit profile is mostly used for new business quoting purposes for home and auto insurance . Carriers in NY load in a whole bunch of rating info when determining your premium - gender , age , marital status , own or rent your home , driving extract , # of years licensed , prior claims on home and/or auto policies , is your prior carrier preferred , standard , or substandard , distance driven to work , pleasuire or business use , and a lot more . Keep your ` credit profile ' and score as clean as possible . Most banks and credit unions have credit specialists who can advise you for free on how to do this . For example , pay all bills ahead of time if possible and always pay more than the minimum amounts . Do n't have credit lines totaling more than a certain % of your gross annual income , etc. . Credit profile is a major influence when getting insurance quotes . I know of no ` proof ' credit profile is a determinate of loss potential , but using credit profile for insurance rating is the way of the world .
One of the many benefits of life insurance is the easy process to borrow money from your policy . Call the insurance company and ask them to send the money to you . They will send a check or wire the money . There are no credit applications or credit checks and your employment status does not matter . Of course you must have enough cash in your policy to borrow from and still keep the policy in-force , but it is an easy process .
The requirement for a credit score is a state specific requirement . In California , there isnt a requirement for a credit score so companies never check your credit . Ask your insurance agent for guidance in this regard . I am not clear on why other states require a credit score . I suppose that there is actuarial data to confirm the linkage between credit score and likelihood that a specific driver will have an accident .
In a way , yes they share information . There is a information depository known as the MIB and no , it does not stand for `` Men in Black '' , it stands for Medical Information Bureau . What the MIB contains is information about paid insurance claims , past applications and other information that insurance companies can access -LRB- with your permission -RRB- to check your medical history . So if you apply with 3 different companies , all 3 companies will know it from the MIB . They will ask you about it and it may effect underwriting as the 3 companies look at the combined face amount and decide if they want to be a part of it . Also lets say you answer a question about heart problems as NONE . In checking the MIB the insurance company finds you have a double bypass in 2009 . Changes everything . Think of the MIB as similar to the Credit Bureau , except for medical stuff instead of credit use . Instead of credit history , the MIB contains your health history .
The requirement for a credit check is a feature of plans written in particular states . Some states , such as California , do not have that requirement . Insurance actuaries have mountains of statistics and have found some items to be significant in predicting claims . That is why some states have a credit check . Apparently , bad credit indicates a tendency to have claims .
The credit discount varies by state and insurance company . Check with the Department of Insurance -LRB- DOI -RRB- with your state to see if it is allowed . Typically each insurance company has their own formula for the discount , and it is considered proprietary information . However , to get a better understanding of factors with your credit score , you should go to www.myfico.com . Although insurance companies are n't looking at your actual score like when you apply for a car loan , many take the following information into consideration when designing their discounting formula : 1 . amounts owed 2 . payment history 3 . credit mix 4 . length of credit history 5 . new credit Whether you like it or not , this type of discounting is also used frequently for homeowners insurance too and can add up to big savings over time .
Most agents and brokers in New York use either the carrier websites or an online rating program to develop auto insurabnce quotes . Somewhere between 50 and 60 pieces of information are required just to select the rating ` tiers ' the carriers use . Some carriers have only 15 to 20tiers and some have over 100 . Your data isentered into the program . The carrier 's program uses this data to selectyour rating tier . Some factors such as : own or rent your home , gender , age , number of years licensed , driving record , credit profile , claims history -LRB- not only auto but property insurance claimsmay also be figured in ... -RRB- and on and on . Several years ago , only your driving record and claims history were the major factors involved . Today , your credit profile has a very major impact on how much you will pay - some carriers will not even develop a quote if your credit profile is not within their tolerances . So keep your credit score and profile as good as possible . Always ask your agent or broker for a ` guaranteed ' quote as some rating programs may not come up with a final ` guaranteed ' quote unless the agent or broker pays some fees for the data retrieval -LRB- of the credit data , claims data , and DMV extracts -RRB- to their system vendor or their carrier . In New York , insurance quote retrievals of your credit data are considered a ` no-hit ' to your credit status so you can ask several compnies to quote your insurance without penalty to your credit .
The first place that you can check is Policy Locator Service through the Medical Information Bureau . MIB Group , Inc is a cooperative data exchange formed by the North American life insurance industry in 1909 . There is a cost associated with the search but it will return results via mail with a list of queries by insurance companies for underwriting on the search subject , from whenever they were `` shopped '' for insurance . Keep in mind , that this is not 100 % inclusive for all insurers . The search form is located here WEBSITELINK Secondly , through some sleuthing using either the above list or my following list of suggestions , you should contact the insurers on your target list , in order to verify the active policies . Where to search : - Credit card and bank statements : Go back through the insured 's financial records and look for periodic payments to insurers , whether it be on a monthly , quarterly , semi-annual or annual basis . This should indicate who the insurer is/was based upon where the money is paid to . - Banks , Credit Unions , Credit card companies : Often times , many banks , lenders and credit companies offer group policies for their account holders for as little as $ 1,000.00 of coverage and higher amounts based upon certain requirements . Check with these groups to see if they had offered any of these products at any point in time . - Pay stubs/Employers and Benefits companies : Many employers offer a basic life or AD&D policy to full time employees for free as well as inexpensive group policies . Deductions for the premium payments on the group policies may be found on the insured 's pay stub . However , many times , this coverage is only active when the insured is employed . - Split Dollar/Executive Compensation plans : Some employers taking advantage of tax regulations , used life insurance to pay benefits to key employees which may have also been part of Supplemental Exec Retirement Plans -LRB- SERP -RRB- . Verify with the insured 's former employers if any plan existed . - Unions , Pensions and Fraternal organizations : Many Unions and Pension funds may have a small paid-up policy on the insured as part of their benefits package . The same goes for Fraternal organizations including Knights of Columbus , Elks , Masons , etc. . Many times the search is no easy task however , after a bit of detective work and dedication , you may uncover a handful of forgotten or unknown small policies , where the cumulative benefit adds up and more than justifies the search !
Some insurance companies will not accept credit cards for payment of premiums . Some will . Typically if you pay your premiums annually , semi-annually or quarterly many providers will accept credit card payment . It seems the biggest issue with credit cards is that people tend to forget about updating their information as needed with the companies they pay by credit card . When a card expires and is replaced with a new expiration date , the previous card is no longer useable . Sometimes people will delete a credit card account that was being used for automatic payments and not inform their creditor of a replacement card . It creates a lot of accounting headaches . So insurance companies prefer to debit from checking or savings accounts .
Nearly all carriers use credit in underwriting . The only variable is what sorts of events they rate on and how important it is to the rating process . Many will overlook credit , although Effective Coverage works with at least one auto insurance company in Texas who does not do a credit check for auto insurance .
Unfortunately , it will more than likely not affect your credit at all . The best you could hope for is that a company will look favorably upon a coverage history when deciding whether or not to provide you with credit . Typically your credit score is based on payment history of credit cards , loans and a few other factors . Normally not insurance payments . Things can change . If in doubt check with your local agent . Each state is different and legislation is a moving target .
end question
start question
home-insurance
What Is The Average Deductible For Home Insurance ?
The answer to this is that it really depends on what replacement cost and geographically where your home is located . Here in the greater Atlanta area a $ 1000 deductible is quite common . What we see in the Tucson area -LRB- an area where there are not frequent wind storms -RRB- there is more likelihood of the deductible being $ 500 . And in Texas and some other states percentage deductibles have been the norm for decades . So in Texas it is not uncommon to see a 1 % wind and hail deductible an 1/2 % all other perils deductible . Lastly , there are some elements of this that is dependent of the size and replacement value of homes . If you are insuring a 700,000 home or greater , then a $ 2,500 deductible is quite common .
Over the years , like many things relating to Insurance Coverage , deductibles have generally increased . In many areas , home construction values have increased and the voluntary increasing of a deductible is a very sound way to help manage related premium increases . It is also true that many companies are making policy decisions to reduce the number of deductible choices available . In those case , lately I have been seeing that the average deductible isa $ 1000 . They can certainly go up from there , but check with your INsurance Professional to see if the increase reflects enough of a premium cost savings for you .
The are many deductibles that a homeowner can choose for their insurance . However , the lower the deductible the higher your insurance will be . The average deductible that many choose is $ 1000 . This means that during a claim , you pay the $ 1000 and your insurance company pays the rest . However , the caution to keep in mind : for every claim that you make , your insurance company can raise your rates or cancel your policy . It is important to ask your insurance company if they have waivers for claims and what claims free discounts they offer . 703-651-5817
An Average person driving an average car living in an average neighborhood with an average driving record who wants average coverage 's and drives an average amount of miles and holds an average job with an average wife and average kids and an average income would surely pay an average price . However as an agent to be a little more specific I would need the answers to what is average .
Homeowners Insurance does not cover earthquakes . This type of risk is specifically excluded . A homeowner would be required to purchase an additional earthquake policy to cover this type of risk . Depending on where you live the rates can be low to very high -LRB- and what is high -RRB- if you live in a high risk earthquake zone . The average deductible is 15 % of coverage so no small chunk of change . I am in California which is earthquake territory and believe all homeowners should carry earthquake coverage who are in high hazard zones . Average replacement for a home can range from 350k-1 million and so can your loan amount . While your deductible may be 80k -LRB- just an average -RRB- this is far less then the potential of a total loss which can run 500k . Keep in mind , your home does not have to fall to the ground . If the home even shifts of the foundation the chances are your looking at a total loss . In California all Insurance carriers are required by law to offer you earthquake coverage when you purchase a homeowners insurance policy and make the offer available again at renewal at least every two years afterward . A homeowner then has the option to accept or reject coverage . I often get allot of phone calls right after a shaker . The problem is in many cases moratoriums go up and earthquake coverage is not available for a couple of weeks so if your thinking about getting earthquake insurance , do n't think about it . Purchase the coverage and sleep better at night . And I recommend an automatic earthquake gas shut off valve be installed on your gas meter to help prevent gas leaking into your home and a sudden explosion .
The average cost of life insurance varies so much that it is impossible to state a meaningful figure . What is average for a 20 year old male is a far cry of what is average for an 80 year old male . Those two persons generally do n't even need the same face amounts or purchase the same type of policies . To find the average cost of Term Life Insurance for a relatively healthy person , you can use quote engines on websites that will show that . Better yet is to call the website or a local agency , and discuss your health and the type of policy you want . If they have several companies that will cover you with the same type of policy , that is a good way to see an average price of what life insurance would cost for you .
Based on data compiled for health insurance plans in 2014 with the new mandated coverage under the Affordable Care Act , the weighted average of a benchmark -LRB- silver , or 70 % benefit level -RRB- health insurance plan in Kansas is $ 260 ; which is below the $ 328 national weighted average . As for current Kansas averages , the 2013 data is not accurately completed and compiled yet . But by best estimates of 2013 data , the average premium in Kansas is $ 182 , but does not disclose or reflect benefit levels or type of coverage -LRB- the national average benefit level is 78 % -RRB- . So , in conclusion , a resident of Kansas can expect to pay on average $ 182 for a health plan the remainder of 2013 , and then $ 260 starting 2014 -LRB- a 43 % increase from 2013 , which is in line with the national weighted average of overall premium increases -RRB- . But , premiums vary widely across the state and by county , and by age .
The most recent figures for late March , 2014 indicate that the average cost of an individual major medical health insurance policy in the United States is $ 328 per month . That said , your results can and almost certainly will vary . A national average figure is not likely to be reflective of what the cost would be for you in the specific area of the state that you are a resident in . Also , this average figure does not take into account any possible advanced premium tax subsidy a person might qualify for , which would reduce that person 's net cost of insurance . Individual health insurance rates can vary wildly from one state to another and can vary significantly within the various regions that each state is subdivided into under the structure imposed by the Affordable Care Act . And the reported national average price becomes an even more unreliable yardstick because it also averages in a wide range of levels of insurance coverage . As an analogy , you can get an average cost for a new car purchase in the U.S. but that may bear little resemblance to the price of the specific car you want to buy .
In order to determine the proper protection on your home insurance carriers or more specifically the agents will runreplacementcost estimators on the home . Thereplacementcost estimator will determine what it will cost to rebuild a home in the event of a total loss . Thisfigurehas no bearing on what the market value of a home is . In California you see market values of homes ranging on average around $ 800,000 . However the actual construction cost to rebuild may only be $ 450,000 since land is not taken into consideration . The reverse can also be true . The market may have sunk in a given area so that same house is now only worth $ 200,000 on the market but it still costs $ 450,000 to rebuild since the cost of construction has not changed . Always have a discussion with your agent about the details of your home so a proper replacement amount can be determined and you are properly insured .
Because it 's not going to happen to them and it 's expensive . But the truth is the cost of the coverage is not nearly as expensive as the average cost of care and there is a pretty darned good chance they WILL need care . Roughly 70 % of people over 65 will need long term care services in their lifetime , 40 % of people currently receiving long term care services are aged 10-64 ! Average home health care expenses in Illinois average over $ 45,000 while a semi-private room averages around $ 70,000 , FAR more than the cost of the coverage to pay for it .
The answer to this question is based entirely upon the carrier and the state . Most carriers offer a range of deductibles from $ 500 - $ 5000 . If you own a high end home , the deductibles offered can be in the $ 10,000 - $ 50,000 range . Another type of deductible you may see is a separate wind/hail deductible . Originally , these deductible were found on homes in the hurricane belt , but in recent years , the South & Midwest have resorted to this deductible due to the number of tornados , high straight-line winds & hail claims . Often , the wind/hail deductible is shown as a percentage of the replacement cost of the home . For example , a 5 % wind/hail deductible on a $ 400,000 home would be $ 20,000 . Other separate deductibles for other causes of loss might be earthquake & flood .
Nursing home care is typically covered by a Long-Term Care insurance policy . Medicare can cover some nursing home expenses , but only under specific conditions . The facility providing the nursing home care to Medicare beneficiaries must be a Medicare certified skilled nursing home and you must have a qualifying hospital stay -LRB- at least a 3-day hospital stay -RRB- before going into the nursing care facility . Medigap plans can provide some coverage too if Medicare approves the claim for nursing home care -LRB- Medigap plans only provide benefits if Medicare does too -RRB- . You can also refer to Medicare.gov to see specifically what nursing home care expenses are covered . A Long-Term Care insurance policy is recommended because it can protect you from draining all your savings to pay for the expensive costs of nursing home care . According to longtermcare.gov , the average cost of care in a nursing home facility is approximately $ 6,235 per month in a semi-private room -LRB- that 's $ 74,820 per year -RRB- , $ 6,965 per month for a private room -LRB- that 's $ 83,580 per year -RRB- , and $ 3,293 per month for care in an assisted living facility -LRB- that 's $ 39,516 -RRB- . In short , the cost of care is more than what most people make in a year and they would drain their assets paying for the care . How many people could afford to write that size check ? So why take on the risk yourself when you can shift the risk to a third party -LRB- the insurance company -RRB- and let them take care of the expenses . Please let me know if I can be of further assistance . Thanks very much .
70 % of people who are 65 years old will need to use some type of long term care in their lifetime . And , as they age the likelihood of needing long term care will increase . The cost for this care is very expensive and it is not covered by conventional health insurance - commercial carriers or Medicare . This is because our health care system is geared to acute care not long term care . According to the 2015 Genworth survey the national average cost for a semi-private room in a nursing home is about $ 80,000 . More , for a private room . Home Health care costs average $ 20/hour . These expense arise when most people are living on a fixed income with little room for added expenses . Especially , unplanned ones . Baby boomers have not been great at planning for retirement . One year of long term care can ruin someone 's retirement plans . This is what happens in many cases ; families deplete their assets and end up qualifying for Medicaid -LRB- aka Welfare -RRB- to pay for long term care expenses . The question people need to ask themselves is when the need for long term care arises , will they have the money to pay for this care ? This is what long term care insurance can do for them . Insurance is the only financial vehicle that promises a specific amount of money at a point in time . There is no other . Even though this can be an expensive premium , depending on the age at which the policy is purchased , compared to the benefits paid , it is worth the outlay for most people . Not only because it will help pay the bills . Long term care insurance policies offer additional benefits that most people are unaware of . Most importantly , all carriers offer optional care management to assist with the difficult decisions about care , choosing facilities and offering discounts on major providers of care . Many times families need someone to discuss options with who is educated about all the options available and is n't emotionally involved with their situation . This is where the care manager can be of tremendous help and the family does not have to go to the expense of hiring a geriatric care manager . The policies will also pay for modifications to be made to the home to keep the person at home rather than moving them to a nursing home .
Average Homeowners Insurance Rates were $ 876 Nationwide in 2013 . This average figure is of no assistance when trying to assess each individual risk ; many carriers have a minimum annual premium of $ 300 and it is common for High Value Properties to pay an annual premium exceeding $ 10,000 . When one asks about Homeowners Insurance , it is common that he or she includes mobile homes , manufactured homes , rental homes , condos , townhomes and high value estate properties ; in fact , each of these different types of properties are written on a different form creating differentiating underwriting scenarios . There is a link providing an online format to obtain a quote and buy home insurance online in multiple States ; it may be used by Escrow/Closing Professionals , Mortgage Professionals , Real Estate Agents and directly by Consumers . An exemplary online experience for all ! WEBSITELINK
The average rating people get for life insurance is Standard . From that , you can determine the average cost for persons of different ages . Keep in mind that the average cost for an 80 year old is going to be much different than the average cost for a 20 year old . As will the average cost for someone with diabetes as compared with someone with perfect health . The length of the term , or whether the policy is a permanent policy , have a great effect on the premium , as well . It is a good idea to go into a life insurance sale with your top dollar that you can spend , in mind . Then see if you can get a policy that suits your needs for a premium a little lower than that . Something is better than nothing , and by consulting with an honest and knowledgeable agent , most people can find coverage at a price they can afford .
Who is the average person and how much of their compensation does average person want to protect ? Long term disability insurance is paycheck insurance . First determine if your tax bracket warrants deducting the disability insurance premium as a legitimate business . If the answer is yes , apply for 80 % of your compensation . Keep in mind that the benefits will be taxable as ordinary income . If the answer is no , apply for 60 % of your compensation , your benefits will be tax free . Whats the cost ? Whats your gender , age , smoking status , health history , current medical condition ? Whats the amount you want to cover ? How long do you want coverage to last ? What elimination period do you require based on your current cash reserves ? It is possible that you may pay between 3-5 % of the compensation youre attempting to indemnify .
A very good and perceptive question . From the perspective of a 30-year health insurance veteran I can certainly say that by the standards of the mid-1980 's when $ 250 or $ 500 deductibles were the norm almost any health insurance plan offered today is a high deductible plan . Now , high deductible health plan means different things to different people/organizations . Since the inception of Health Savings Accounts in 2003 the term high deductible health plan was generally associated with a health insurance policy designed to be complimented by a Health Savings Account . Over the years , as health care costs have continued to escalate and pull health insurance costs up along with them , there has been a steady increase in plan deductibles in traditional health insurance plans that feature copayments for services like doctors visits and prescription drugs . With the implementation of the Affordable Care Act -LRB- ObamaCare -RRB- this trend has accelerated sharply for a variety of reasons . Today my average small group employer client usually has a deductible in the $ 2000 to $ 2500 range and in the individual health insurance market plans with deductibles in the $ 4000 to $ 6000 range are not uncommon , and these are all for plans that still maintain many copayment features and are not qualified for use with a Health Savings Account . If the Cadillac Tax provisions of the Affordable Care Act go into effect in 2018 as currently planned this will place great pressure on many organizations to increase their plan deductibles significantly to keep their premium levels below the threshold where this tax would be assessed . This will impact many organization that have traditionally offered rich health benefits packages to their employees/members . State , county and municipal governments , educational institutions , hospitals , and ironically many labor union plans are some of the prime examples of organizations that will be adversely impacted by this tax . So , to a fairly large extent , one can argue that high deductible health plans have already become the norm in the individual and small group health insurance markets and are in the process of being joined by their cousins in larger businesses . Absent some serious changes in America 's health care cost structure and the requirements of the Affordable Care Act the move to high deductible plans with their associated cost shifting to the health care consumer are a foregone conclusion .
Without having a crystal ball , it 's impossible to know how much of any type of insurance you should have.Obviously , the more , the better . With Long Term Care , you buy a total pool of money and you pick the maximum amount PER DAY that will be paid from the pool of money . So again , the larger that pool is , the better . There are lots of statistics out there , but the main thing is that it must be affordable so you keep it over the long haul . A good average figure might be in the $ 200,000 range -LRB- pool of money -RRB- and $ 200/day . That amount would cover many situations including an average nursing home . However , most claims occur in YOUR home since most people want to stay in their home . So if the above is unaffordable , buy as much as you can . You may only need $ 80 for home health care . Something is always better than nothing - and this is especially true with Long Term Care .
The first thing I recommend looking for is appropriate coverage . Your homeowners insurance should have enough dwelling coverage to cover not only the cost of rebuilding your home , but also cover the clearing and removal of debris is your home is destroyed . All too often , I see homeowners policies that ONLY cover the cost to rebuild . If you do n't have enough to clear the debris , you could get stuck with that cost yourself -LRB- and that cost is in the neighborhood of $ 30,000 ! -RRB- . If the cost to rebuild your home becomes MORE than your coverage , is there anything in place to help pay for that ? For example , Farmers Insurance will include an extra 25 % of the dwelling coverage . So , if your home coverage is $ 100,000 , and it ends up cost $ 125,000 to rebuild your home , Farmers Insurance would pay that amount -LRB- minus your home deductible -RRB- . The final thing I would point out would be the deductible . In many cases , if you have never had a claim , you can have a lower deductible . However , many insurance companies are moving to a higher deductible model -LRB- usually as a percentage of the dwelling coverage -RRB- . So , if your dwelling coverage is $ 200,000 , your deductible would be 1 % of the dwelling , or $ 2,000 . I recommend finding a company that offers a deductible you feel comfortable paying .
The only way to receive accurate estimates for yourself is to contact a few insurance agents in the area you 're considering purchasing a home . An insurance agent can provide a quote for a property you 're considering purchasing . Home insurance rates can vary greatly based on geographic location , the individual home and the individual homeowner . The average monthly cost of 20 homeowners in Austin TX might be $ 100/month , but the average monthly cost of 20 homeowners in Houston TX might be $ 200/month because of the greater risk of hurricanes .
end question
start question
medicare-insurance
Will Getting Married Affect My Medicare ?
No , Medicare is carried by the individual and will not be affected . The only way I know of that marriage would come into play would be to help a spouse receive Medicare benefits even though that spouse may not have the prerequisite employment time required . You may want to check with your Social Security office or Medicare regarding the rules in this regard .
Getting married does not affect Medicare except in one way . The premium you pay for Part B may change , as that is based on your and your spouse 's income together . Getting married does NOT affect your plan , your deductibles , your co-pay 's , your premium for Part C and D , etc. .
Yes , in most cases . Rates for married vs single are different amoungst most companies . How it will affect your rates is unpredictible because it depends on whether or not you were residing in the same household over the last year for starters . In Wisconsin at least if you reside in the same household you must be listed on each others policies if separate insurance is carried . To know exactly how getting married would affect your rates , I would suggest contacting your local agent to discuss it with them .
Life insurance can affect SSI if it exceeds the resource limit . What IS allowed in life insurance : Policy or policies with combined face amount of $ 1,500 -LRB- if married , $ 1,500 for each spouse -RRB- $ 1,500 prepaid burial fund -LRB- if married , one for each spouse -RRB- If the person or couple with the burial fund also has life insurance , some of the burial fund may count toward the $ 2,000 limit for an individual or $ 3,000 limit for a married couple .
Medicare Part A is typically $ 0 as long as you met your 40 quarters -LRB- or 10 years -RRB- of working life and paying FICA taxes -LRB- Medicare taxes -RRB- . If you have not met that requirement , the monthly premium is up to $ 426 per month . For 2014 , the premium for Medicare Part B is $ 104.90 . This can change each year and is based on your modified adjusted gross income on your tax return from 2 years prior . You may also face a high-income premium penalty on your Part B coverage . The $ 104.90 premium is for those with incomes of $ 85,000 or less , if filing an individual tax return , and $ 170,000 , if filing a joint tax return . If your income was between $ 85,000 and $ 107,000 -LRB- for individual tax returns -RRB- , $ 170,000 and $ 214,000 for those married filing joint tax returns , your premium would be $ 146.90 . If your income was between $ 107,000 and $ 160,000 -LRB- for individual tax returns -RRB- , $ 214,000 and $ 320,000 for those married filing joint tax returns , your premium would be $ 209.80 . If your income was between $ 160,000 and $ 214,000 -LRB- for individual tax returns -RRB- , $ 320,000 and $ 428,000 for those married filing joint tax returns , your premium would be $ 272.70 . If your income was above $ 214,000 -LRB- for individual tax returns -RRB- , $ 428,000 for those married filing joint tax returns , your premium would be $ 335.70 . You can encounter other expenses as well such as the Part A and Part B deductibles and late enrollment penalties for not enrolling in Part B when you were first eligible for Medicare . Original Medicare -LRB- Parts A & B -RRB- only cover about 80 % of healthcare expenses . You 're generally responsible for the other 20 % . A Medicare supplement plan can greatly help establish a predictable expense structure - essential for individuals on a fixed income in retirement . It will limit the amount of cost you 're susceptible to in the event of an illness or injury .
The answer to your question has many parts to the final answer . Let 's assume I just got married and my phone has been ringing incessantly with insurance agents pedaling their life insurance policies . My wife and I know it just makes good sense to have life insurance-my policy covering her and vice versa . The question is given my occupation and I do not want her to work how do I plan `` how much '' life insurance ? My employer can provide $ 50,000 for me and I am not taxed as long as I stay at or below $ 50,000 . So from a cost standpoint that $ 50,000 is a given . I hope to have two children to keep my wife happy and raising kids . We know it takes a huge amount to just raise the kids much less educate them . We also know if I am smart at some point in my life I will be smart to have saved enough money to get out of the life insurance market and have savings to pay any funeral costs that may arise . So on today 's date I know my `` insurance needs '' is at the highest point it will ever be assuming the two children are born and then we can avoid the `` steamy ` Saturday and be careless and now the third is here . So if I assume the first child will be born in two years that means in year 20 I have to have `` college expense '' funds '' . Is it a better investment to use life insurance or it better to open a mutual fund aggressive growth and invest a $ 100 pewr month for the next 20 years ? Let 's assume the second child in born in our fourth year of marriage . Now the same decision outlined above is with me again . What is often overlooked is the assumption is I will remain healthy and my income will increase each year . What happens if I become ill and diabled for two years ? What disablity insurance plans do I have ? Do they cover my `` own occupation '' or if I can flip hamburgers I am not considered disabled . In order to make an informed decisions you have to consider all the options . Is it best for me to take a Gerber Life insurance policy on each child for $ 20,000 , which then doubles , at their age 18 ? If I am confident that I can save sufficiently for the next 30 years I may decide to take a $ 1,000,000 30 year term policy but if I am not confident of my ability to save then I am sure going to use the `` dollar cost averging '' advantages of having a `` cash value '' policy and a mutual fund in the aggressive growth and invest $ 100 per month . I ho ; pe this helps you to see the complexity of your question .
Only if you and your significant other are legally married . So , if it is a male/female relationship you are inquiring about then things are pretty straightforward from the marriage standpoint . If it is a same sex relationship you are inquiring about then things get more complicated . Same sex marriage is an issue that is still being addressed on a state by state basis . If your home state does not recognize same sex marriage and your employer is domiciled -LRB- incorporated in , established in -RRB- in such a state then you ca n't get married in that state anyways and an out-of-state marriage in a state that does recognize same sex marriage is not recognized in your home state . There is a tremendous amount of litigation going on in the Federal courts over this issue which makes it hard to be totally definitive when addressing this question . To make things even more interesting , you might work at a branch location of a company domiciled in a state that recognizes same sex marriage while your state of residence still does n't . And your employer 's policy may be to accept same sex spouses as dependents under their group health plan . This can result in the situation where one same sex couple -LRB- you still have to be married but I 've got some neighbors that went out of state to get married in a jurisdiction that does allow for same sex marriage even though our home state currently does not -RRB- may be able to take advantage of their employer 's health coverage while a similar same sex couple across the street who work for employers headquartered in states that do n't recognize same sex marriage ca n't cover their same sex spouse as a dependent . It is an interesting time to be in the employee benefits business .
Most individuals receiving Medicare Part B will pay the standard monthly premium -LRB- $ 104.90 per month in 2014 - this number can change each year -RRB- . Some people may be subject to the higher income penalty if they earn above $ 85,000 on their MAGI -LRB- modified adjusted gross income -RRB- as stated on their individual tax return or married filing single tax return from 2 years prior , above $ 170,000 -LRB- if married filing jointly -RRB- . If filing an individual tax return , the premium brackets are as follows for 2014 : 1 -RRB- $ 85,000 or less - $ 104.90 per month 2 -RRB- $ 85,001 - $ 107,000 - $ 146.90 per month 3 -RRB- $ 107,001 - $ 160,000 - $ 209.80 per month 4 -RRB- $ 160,001 - $ 214,000 - $ 272.70 per month 5 -RRB- $ 214,001 or more - $ 335.70 per month If married filing jointly , the premium brackets are as follows for 2014 : 1 -RRB- $ 170,000 or less - $ 104.90 per month 2 -RRB- $ 170,001 - $ 214,000 - $ 146.90 per month 3 -RRB- $ 214,001 - $ 320,000 - $ 209.80 per month 4 -RRB- $ 320,001 - $ 428,000 - $ 272.70 per month 5 -RRB- $ 428,001 or more - $ 335.70 per month If married filing single , the premium brackets are as follows for 2014 : 1 -RRB- $ 85,000 or less - $ 104.90 per month 2 -RRB- $ 85,001 - $ 129,000 - $ 272.70 per month 3 -RRB- $ 129,001 or more - $ 335.70 per month Part B will pay for approximately 80 % of your physician service expenses leaving you responsible for the other 20 % . If you want to add prescription drug coverage or a Medicare supplement plan to cover the gaps in Original Medicare -LRB- Part A & Part B -RRB- , you will have additional premium expenses , however , it will help you create a much more predictable healthcare expense structure -LRB- the premiums will also be based on the plan you 're applying for , your age , and other factors -RRB- .
You should purchase life insurance when you feel it is appropriate . I purchased my first whole life policy when I was 18 years old . I wanted to pay for my final expenses , establish my insurability and I looked to the policy to help me save money in a disciplined manner . When I married , I increased my policy to provide for my brides needs should I die prematurely . I still buy life insurance and am contemplating an additional purchase .
In my work with funeral homes I have seen MANY cases where someone thought that their will would redirect the proceeds of their life insurance . Just a couple of months ago I was involved with a death where a man died and had been married to his 2nd wife for over 20-years . He and his 1st wife were bitter enemies . But he never changed the beneficiary on his life insurance policy . The entire $ 50,000 that the 2nd wife was expecting all went to his 1st wife . She was nice enough to pay the funeral expenses for him -LRB- she did n't have to . -RRB- But the remaining money all went to her . This is a very common error and is another example of why everyone needs a good local life insurance agent that they review things with every few years . Life insurance should not be bought and then thrown in a drawer and forgot about . If there is a living named beneficiary , the life insurance will not be affected by the will or the estate settlement .
Being Married or not married is a rating factor in auto insurance . This is not to be mistaken as a discount . Variable rating factors ultimatelydetermine your final rate . Being married in most cases has a favorable rating factor . The criteria is with almost all insurance carriers is you must reside together or be able to explain a really good reason why you are not residing together if you wish to obtain the married rate . The spouse is not necessary required to be listed on the policy as an operator but must be disclosed as a household member .
Depending on your state the rates can be as little as 20 a month or much more . The rate factor is based on the area you live in and yes your credit plays a part . However if you have good credit they give you a preferred rate but if your credit is not the best in our state then you get the standard rate . They do not put you in a high risk if your credit is not the best . Also in our state being married or your sex plays no affect on your premiums . There are many online carriers but a local agent can sometime be more helpful and making sure you are properly covered and discuss your needs when you shop online only you never get to talk to the same person and they may or may not be able to sell you the best coverage at the best rate . our agency specializes in 24/7 service is an important factor also . I personally answer the phone . NEVER have to call an 800 number and never have to worry about your information being sold to other companies so that you are getting slammed with emails and phone calls from other carriers trying to sell you insurance . Al Local agent can also quote with 100 's of companies also . Unless they are a captive agent which means they can only sell one carrier . As always you can contact your State insurance commissioner and ask them about the carriers in your state including online companies and the complaints they have or have not received . Like our mission statement says Where you can simply Trust to expect the best . We compare rates for you and if we do not have the best fit for you we will recommend other agencies and carriers . It is all about service
The best answer to this is maybe . You can receive discounts for many things when applying for auto insurance . One of the available discounts is being married . However , if you are married , and only have one car then you are effectively nullifying the discount . The reason for this is the corollary discount to being married is the multi-car discount . If you are sharing a car with your spouse , then you will be rated for two drivers with one auto , which means more exposure and subsequently higher premiums . So the best way to maximize your insurance discounts is be married , each drive your own car , and throw on a type of homeowners policy , even if you are just renting . I hope this helps .
It 's quite simple really , you get MARRIED . This change of life status event makes your new spouse a legally eligible dependent that you can add onto your coverage at your employer or to your individual health insurance policy . You have 60-days after getting married to make this change to your coverage . If you are covered by employer based coverage you can double check on this with your personnel department . While I 've never seen it in my nearly 30 years in the business , there may be some self-insured employer out there that has established an internal personnel policy that allows for the coverage of `` boyfriends '' and `` girlfriends '' . But these more casual relationships do not have the same legal recognition that establishes a true dependent status such as with a husband , wife or children . It is highly unlikely that your state 's insurance regulations and/or your employer 's personnel policies will confer true dependent status on this level of relationship .
You can get Medicare if you have never worked or paid any Social Security taxes . If you are married or was married for at least 10 years before death or divorce occurred you may be able to get Medicare through your spouse or former spouse . You would have to check with Social Security to see if you could qualify through a spouse . If you can not qualify through a spouse you can purchase Medicare and the premium for Part A is $ 411 per month and $ 121.80 for Part B .
Under many carriers your auto insruance will be less costly if you are married rather than if you co-habitate with another person . Each carrier will set their own standards as to how this affects the rates that they provide . Contact a local agent to find out about coverage availability and pricing within your area .
Are you asking , `` If I receive life insurance money as a beneficiary , will it affect my credit score ? '' If so , it will not do so unless you start charging more things and paying them off quickly . If you are asking , `` Does paying my life insurance premium affect my credit score ? '' The answer again is no , unless you pay the bill by credit card and pay it on time each month .
There are many things that the insurance industry uses for rating factors . Your age your credit your driving history . In some states your sex also plays a factor in rating . In Montana the rates are not affected by your sex . Also some states being married or single makes a difference also . The biggest rating factor with many carriers are the amount of claims and accidents and population in the area you live in . Example would be here in the town I live in there are many DUI and accidents but 22 miles away in a smaller town and les accident and claims the rates are lower .
Life insurance is mathematics . The older you are , the closer you are to the day that you will die . If you have medical conditions that affect longevity that will enter into the equation . If you want the coverage for a short period of time or if you want the policy to be in force regardless of when you die , that also is a factor . This is to say that the cost of the policy will vary and a good life insurance agent can marry your needs to your ability to pay . Contact one today .
Yes . I have been married twice . My first wife of 24 years passed away from cancer . Insurance allowed us to move on with less difficulty that we would have had if there had been no funds available . I know from first hand experience that you need to cover your most prized possessions and your spouse is a real prize -LRB- that is why you married them ; you wanted to get lucky -RRB- There are many options available when it comes to providing adequate coverage to loved ones . Contact us for more detailed information if you are in the market for great coverage .
end question
start question
long-term-care-insurance
What Are Some Things To Consider When Buying Long-Term Care Insurance ?
When it comes to buying long term care insurance , make sure you 've educated yourself first ! It 's important to understand the product before you make any decisions about the type of policy you want . Here 's an LTCI glossary that can help you understand the `` bells and whistles '' of any LTCI policy . WEBSITELINK
What are some of the things to consider when buying long term care insurance ? Well what is nice about most software agents use to help you with your selections is that they can `` plug '' in different benefits to the plan and you can immediately see what it does to cost and plan design . The things you need to consider are cost , as in can you afford to pay the premiums and possible increases in the future ? Plan design , are the choices in plan design relevant to how long term care is actually used ? It is a good idea to review actual costs of care in your state and duration of stays in a long term care facility . This way you can fine tune a bit and get a policy that will work for you without breaking your bank account
The # 1 risk in retirement is human longevity . Living longer can impact the cash flow of seniors with unexpected costs like long term care . Whether it 's at home assisted living or nursing home confinement , long term care can mitigate the cost of elder care via indemnification or reimbursement coverage .
Maybe one should not get long-term care insurance . Let 's start there . If an individual or a family has a sizeable estate that either is liquid or can be liquidated and be made readily available to pay for the cost of long-term care , maybe long-term care is n't needed . If , on the other extreme , you have a very small estate comprised of no real estate and very little personal property of any worth and will rely almost entirely on Social Security in retirement , you ca n't afford long-term care premiums , now or in the future . You will have to have a plan , however , in case you do need long-term care . A family discussion around the topic should be scheduled so that those that might become either temporary or permanent caregivers are fully apprised of the responsibilities and sacrifices that may have to be made . Medicaid qualification should be fully investigated and the benefits and limitations understood . People buy long-term care for roughly the same reason they buy life insurance . One buys life insurance because they care about the financial security of those that are left behind . One buys long-term care insurancebecause they care about those that might have to take care of them if they ca n't take care of themselves . Long-term care costs are not covered by conventional health insurance , Medicare , and most Medicare supplement insurance . They can be very expensive , especially ifthe elderly person lives a long-period of time in a state of incapacity . Caregivers will be spouses and adult children are likely to be caregivers whether one owns long-term care insurance or not . Long-term care insurance is for caregivers . It gives them choices about the quality of care that can be afforded and whether they can be relieved of some of the responsibility for caregiving . Many elderly spouses of those that ca n't take care of themselves become disabled themselves because of the emotional and psychological energy expended in caregiving . Adult children sometimes get caught in a conflict over eldercare and parenting growing children . Long-term care insurance provides income-tax-free money to hire trained individuals to care for loved ones . Ultimately , it allows the insured to die with dignity and peace . Getting back to the wealthy that do n't need to buy long-term care insurance , guess what ? Many wealthy couples and individuals do . They understand leverage : paying smaller dollars now for larger dollars later , if needed . They also understand that in many situations , premiums for long-term care may be tax-deductible . What about the middle class ? They would have to design their coverage to help offset the cost of long-term care . No matter how much one spends , no long-term care insurance policy can guarantee to cover all possible long-term care expenses . But , the average claim is about 24 - 26 months . Buying a long-term care policy with a pool of money sufficient to cover at least part of those costs would be prudent . Is buying a basic plan for long-term care that would pay only half of one 's long-term care costs be a bad deal ? I do n't think anyone that 's paying $ 400/day for facility care and being reimbursed for $ 200/day would find that of no value .
A better question would be `` Who Should n't Buy Long-term Care Insurance '' ? Thats simpler to answer . The following people should NOT buy long term care insurance : 1 . Those that can not afford the premium on even a base policy . 2 . Those that have virtually no assets to pass on to the next generationand will need every available dollar saved for retirement . 3 . Those that will have to work until they die for lack of savings and insufficient Social Security payments or private pension . 4 . Those that can not medically qualify . 5 . Those that are already unable to perform regular daily activities of living without assistance . People in those conditions may qualify for the payment of long-term care through Medicaid -LRB- MediCal in California -RRB- if they come to a point in their life where they need care and ca n't afford it . If the above conditions describe you in any way , you should be sitting down with your adult children or closest relatives and coming up with a plan of action should you be unable to take care of yourself . Everyone else should consider buying some long-term care insurance through an agent or agency that either specializes or has a specialist that is experienced in handling long-term care insurance casework . Having some amount of insurance is better than having none . When one qualifies to receive payments from the insurance company for long-term care , they are usually near the end of their life . The average long-term care claim is approximately 2 - 2.5 years . For those that need care longer than that , virtually all but the most unusual claims are paid out after 5 years . Families with a history of late-life mental illness -LRB- dementia or Alzheimers -RRB- should consider buying a larger pool of money than others , if they can afford it . It is in the best interest of the adult children to help out with long-term care premium payments if the elderly parents can not afford to pay all of the costs . Long-term care is an emotional , psychological , sociological , and family problem as much as it is financial . For the dignity of those who need care and the people or person most likely to be the caregiver , there needs to be a plan of action determined and long-term care insurance should be a part of that plan if it can be afforded and the person is medically qualified . Long-term care insurance is best purchased when young . Premiums can and will go up during the life of the policy if all the bells and whistles are included in the design of the coverage . But , those increases will seem like pocket-change if one needs long-term care . $ 80,000 per year is not unusual for facility care today . 24/7 home care can exceed $ 20,000 per month ! With family help , home care costs can be kept down . But , if facility care is required , there 's not much that can be done about avoiding high costs . Long-term care costs vary by place . The left - and right-hand coasts are the most expensive . Relocation may be necessary to get affordable care in a quality facility .
Short answer : About 8 % Long answer : It 's hard to say exactly how many people own some type of policy that covers paying the costs of long term care - should one qualify for it - because there are many types of insurance policies that are not just `` stand-alone '' long-term care policies , but plans of insurance that include being able to use a percentage of other plan benefits for paying long-term care costs :1 . Stand-alone long-term care insurance covers only long-term care costs . It has no cash value . When a policy owner dies , coverage either lapses or stops paying benefits . It is not transferable . It can not be bought or sold on a secondary market . This type of long-term care insurance is sometimes referred to as `` traditional '' long-term care insurance , as well . It is the type of coverage that is most often associated with the `` percentage of Americans that own their own long-term care insurance '' .2 . Hybrid long-term care contracts consist of having long-term coverage and a life insurance policy that guarantees to at least return the full premium paid into the policy to the insured 's designated beneficiary . Usually , these are single-premium contracts , but some have options to also pay over a specified period of time , such as 5 - or 10-years .3 . Linked life + long-term care policies are basically a traditional permanent life insurance contract -LRB- Whole Life or Universal Life , including the Variable or Indexed type -RRB- . If a person qualifies for long-term care and they have the long-term care rider on their life policy , they may apply to the insurance company to advance or accelerate the face value of the policy -LRB- death benefit -RRB- to pay for the costs of care . There are various limitations on how much can be advanced at a time . If the face value of the life contract is completely advanced for long-term care , there is usually a residual death benefit of $ 5,000 - $ 10,000.4 . The latest addition to life insurance product lines are policies offering `` living benefits '' , one of which is very similar to the linked-life policy . In fact , the only difference is that a medical professional has to state in writing that the insured is not likely to recover from the condition that qualifies for long-term care benefits . -LRB- True long-term care insurance does not require that . -RRB- This type of living benefit is most often referred to as `` chronic care '' or `` extended care '' . Annuities may also have special considerations for paying out portions of the account value for long-term care costs.The point is , people who own life insurance or annuity contracts with long-term care accommodations are not typically included in with the 8 % that own traditional long-term care . So , the real percentage of those that have made some type of insurance purchase to offset long-term care costs is greater than 8 % . I doubt , however , that the total percentage of Americans that own any of the above-described types of policies would exceed 20 % at this time .
Roughly sixty percent of Americans will require long term care services sometime during their lifetime . This is not exclusively a problem for the elderly as younger people can require this type of care some times . This level of care includes a range of services including skilled and custodial care that is provided over a long period of time . These requirements come from chronic sickness or injury , cognitive impairment and physical disability . Hospitals provide acute care . Medical care given over a long period of time for chronic conditions is where the need for long term care arises . Sometimes custodial care is required because the patient has lost the ability to do one of the recognized activities of daily living or instrumental activities of daily living . Most of the long term care given in the US is given by family members . However , there are many situations where family members can not provide necessary care . Professional and non-professionals can provide aid and assistance to these people . This long term care can be given in the home of the patient or in a variety of institutional settings . Long term care can be given in day-care facilities , nursing homes , and assisted living facilities . On average men need more than two years of long term care while women need almost four years on average ? The leading causes for patients requiring long term care are dementia , arthritis , cancer , stroke and nervous conditions . Caring for a patient in a home setting can cost up to $ 150,000 per year . The cost for a nursing home bed is about $ 75,000 per year -LRB- this varies by location . -RRB- There are basically four ways to finance long term care . The family can take the expense out of their own pocket , they can look to government programs -LRB- if they qualify , -RRB- they can use long term care insurance or they can rely upon charity . For a variety of reasons long term care insurance has provided a solution for many people . LTC insurance provides predictability for an otherwise unpredictable risk . It has become such popular coverage and policyholders have been so reluctant to drop their coverage that the benefits have started exceeding the premiums . It is quite popular among wealthy policyholders . Many companies that offered coverage have withdrawn and others have been forced to raise their premiums . This adjustment seems to be complete now . There are various forms of LTC coverage . Policies different widely . It is rather difficult to compare but is worth the effort . When deciding on a policy the first thing to establish is the amount of coverage you want and the period of time you want coverage . The second consideration is how soon after the start of long term care will you want the policy to start paying . This waiting period is computed in several ways so care must be exercised to make sure you are making a fair comparison . Not all policies use the same events to trigger benefits so care should be taken in this area as well . This can be a very technical area so compare your situation with the policy requirements . How a policy pays out will vary according to the policy . Some policies provide for reimbursement of expenses , others use an indemnity form which pays up to a specific limit of expenses incurred on each specific day , and some are on a cash model which pays a maximum benefit regardless of the actual cost of the care that is being given . Long term care insurance is a way to protect assets . The alternatives deplete assets with the government programs requiring a person to be in poverty .
Long Term Health Care Insurance is called , simply , Long Term Care Insurance . It covers the cost of living in a nursing home , assisted living home , or receiving other types of services when the insured person is unable to take care of themselves . Among those who should buy Long Term Care Insurance are those who have many assets and feel strongly that they do not want their assets to go toward paying long term care expenses . People who want to have many choices in how and where they are cared for , should they be unable to care for themselves , are also people who would benefit from Long Term Care insurance , if they can afford it . Finally , persons whose families want the security of knowing that their parents will not rely on them for long term care , if needed , are those who should considering buying Long Term Care insurance .
What are some of the things to consider when buying long term care insurance ? Well what is nice about most software agents use to help you with your selections is that they can `` plug '' in different benefits to the plan and you can immediately see what it does to cost and plan design . The things you need to consider are cost , as in can you afford to pay the premiums and possible increases in the future ? Plan design , are the choices in plan design relevant to how long term care is actually used ? It is a good idea to review actual costs of care in your state and duration of stays in a long term care facility . This way you can fine tune a bit and get a policy that will work for you without breaking your bank account
Not everyone needs long term care insurance . LTCI is not for persons who are struggling to meet their day to day living expenses , rent an apartment , and have little savings and no investments . If such a person needed to go to a nursing home , Medicaid will almost immediately start picking up their tab and they will be fine . Long term care insurance is for those who have substantial assets or income that they do n't want to `` lose '' by paying high long term care costs . Some people are OK with their savings going to long term care expenses , if needed . They figure that is why they saved . Others feel strongly that they want to pass that wealth to heirs to continue a business , care for a disabled adult child , or help grandchildren go to college , among a myriad of other reasons . It is this latter segment of the population that `` needs '' long term care insurance , especially if they are not so very wealthy that paying nursing home expenses for many years would simply dent their resources , rather than deplete them . If they can afford long term care insurance , but would not be able to to pay for long term care services , people who are adamant about choosing the type of care they receive , or persons who are setting up a plan so that their children do n't have to worry about it , also could use long term care insurance . As long as Medicaid is around , no one absolutely needs long term care insurance . But for all the reasons above , many people would consider it a need if they looked at it realistically .
The reason people buy Long Term Care Insurance is so that they have the resources to pay for home health care , assisted living care , nursing home care , or some other types of care that are needed if they are unable to take care of themselves independently . Some people with large estates get Long Term Care insurance because they do not want all their hard earned money or property go to paying a nursing home . Rates of $ 100,000 per year are not uncommon for skilled nursing care . In order to qualify for Medicaid to pay these expenses , resources must be spent down to almost nothing -LRB- if a spouse is at home , the spouse does get to keep half of the couple 's resources -RRB- . So having Long Term Care insurance to pay for these costs both helps preserve the estate and assists the spouse left at home , if applicable . One aspect of Long Term Care insurance that is not always considered is the freedom of choice that is offered to persons who carry insurance to cover chronic care expenses . If they have the right type of coverage , they can pay a relative to come live with them or choose home health care , if that works . If they must go to a nursing home , they have more choice in the facility they want to live in , versus having to go with the room arrangements or facilities that only Medicaid will cover . This is not to say that Long Term Care Insurance is for everyone . If you have very few resources and are already on Medicaid , or anticipate getting Medicaid benefits in the future , there is no need to purchase Long Term Care Insurance . And if you need to dip into grocery money , forego medical care , or lead a poor quality of life to pay for LTC insurance , that is not worth it . Consulting with agencies that can shop for these policies to get you the best rate , and also guide you through the decision whether and what to buy LTC insurance , is a great place to start .
70 % of people who are 65 years old will need to use some type of long term care in their lifetime . And , as they age the likelihood of needing long term care will increase . The cost for this care is very expensive and it is not covered by conventional health insurance - commercial carriers or Medicare . This is because our health care system is geared to acute care not long term care . According to the 2015 Genworth survey the national average cost for a semi-private room in a nursing home is about $ 80,000 . More , for a private room . Home Health care costs average $ 20/hour . These expense arise when most people are living on a fixed income with little room for added expenses . Especially , unplanned ones . Baby boomers have not been great at planning for retirement . One year of long term care can ruin someone 's retirement plans . This is what happens in many cases ; families deplete their assets and end up qualifying for Medicaid -LRB- aka Welfare -RRB- to pay for long term care expenses . The question people need to ask themselves is when the need for long term care arises , will they have the money to pay for this care ? This is what long term care insurance can do for them . Insurance is the only financial vehicle that promises a specific amount of money at a point in time . There is no other . Even though this can be an expensive premium , depending on the age at which the policy is purchased , compared to the benefits paid , it is worth the outlay for most people . Not only because it will help pay the bills . Long term care insurance policies offer additional benefits that most people are unaware of . Most importantly , all carriers offer optional care management to assist with the difficult decisions about care , choosing facilities and offering discounts on major providers of care . Many times families need someone to discuss options with who is educated about all the options available and is n't emotionally involved with their situation . This is where the care manager can be of tremendous help and the family does not have to go to the expense of hiring a geriatric care manager . The policies will also pay for modifications to be made to the home to keep the person at home rather than moving them to a nursing home .
The bottom-line response to this question is `` the long-term care insurance that is in force when you are no longer able to take care of 2 of 6 activities of daily living or are diagnosed with an organic cognitive impairment like Alzheimer 's disease . '' However , the question is an important one and deserves elaboration.The consumer ultimately has to decide what the best long-term care insurance is for them . That requires a sometimes annoying learning curve to find out how the policy works , what the benefits , features , and riders are , and whether one can afford to purchase any kind of long-term care insurance at all.Long-term care insurance is complicated because the issue it addresses is complicated . The risk is that one has about a 1 in 6 chance of needing the help of someone else to bathe , dress , get to a restroom -LRB- in time -RRB- , move from one place to another , be able to eat and/or drink food sufficient for one 's well-being , take Rx medication in the proper dosage at the proper time among other basic daily activities over an extended period of time . These `` ADLs '' or , activities of daily living , are formally defined in a long-term care insurance policy.Clearly , there is a lot of subjective judgment regarding these ADLs and people are often skeptical about who will have the ultimate decision for eligibility to go on claim . Therefore , obtain a `` specimen policy '' from your agent and read it over carefully because that is what you are considering buying - not glossy marketing materials , not agent summaries and simplifications , and certainly not the illustration that might be initially provided for discussion purposes . The insurance contract is a legal document and constitutes the promise of the carrier to the policyowner . If you do n't understand how it works , and you do n't get satisfactory and intelligible explanations from an insurance professional - either the agent , or a carrier representative at the insurance company 's home office - do n't buy it . Here are some general guidelines of the best long-term care policy as represented by contract language : 1 . The definitions section is easy to understand and written in language that does not use technical jargon ; 2 . The section on claims clearly indicates how one can receive benefits3 . There are specifically stated services that the carrier provides at the time of claim to help the insured find qualified and/or skilled nurses for home care and quality-rated facilities should full 24/7 care be needed . This section of the document must include the words `` care coordinator '' and `` plan of care '' .4 . Customer service contact information is prominently displayed in bold type in a font large enough to be easily read by the elderly and is found in several locations in the policy .5 . Contract language allows for the possibility of medical and technical advances in care and medicine for coverage , even though it does not now exist or is not definable at this time .6 . Exclusions are concise and easily understood.The best long-term care insurance is the kind that you understand . It takes a while to figure it out , but this type of insurance could be the difference in your dying alone with no -LRB- or poor -RRB- care while still alive , or dying with dignity with quality care from people that know what they are doing and have the certification and skills to treat you . Take the time and make the effort to be an informed applicant .
There is no one policy that is the best for everyone as we each have our own needs and purposes for buying life insurance . Some may buy life insurance because they just got married , some because they have a new child , some for estate planning , and some for income replacement , just to name a few reasons why people buy it . In evaluating which is best for you , there 's a number of factors to consider such as what type of coverage do you want/need , the reason you want to buy it , how much coverage and for how long -LRB- e.g. term vs. permanent -RRB- , premium affordability , health status , where you live , and others . Term insurance is ideal for short term protection -LRB- e.g. paying off a mortgage or providing income in the event of an early or unexpected death -RRB- . Permanent insurance is ideal for long-term safety net protection , estate planning , retirement planning . Many people buy both types of coverage - some permanent to protect against the future after other debts are paid off and some term to cover time-limited debts -LRB- such as a mortgage , car , etc. -RRB- . Term insurance provides more bang-for-your-buck up front , but it 's only for a short period . Permanent insurance allows you to pay the same premium for the rest of your life without having to worry about it going up in the future . One of the first things you need to do is identify the risk classification you qualify for . The risk classification is critical because this determines what the premiums will be for the policy you 're applying for . This is where insurance brokers are essential in your pursuit of coverage . They have the knowledge to guide you through the process and help you find the policy that 's going to be most suitable for you .
Before buying long term care insurance , it is a good idea to look at the area in which you anticipate you will be living when you reach the age where long term care may be needed , and see what their average rates for assisted living and nursing home care run . Talk to your family and get their ideas on arrangements if that type of care was needed . Review your budget and determine how much you have to spend on long term care , and tell that to your agent when you start . An agent can save you a lot of time and frustration from looking at all kinds of bells and whistles that you can not afford , when they know your budget from the start . These are some things that will help your long term care search start off on a good foot .
Suze Orman recommends long-term care insurance , if it fits and one can medically qualify for it . She is currently taking care of her 90-year old mother who refused to letSuze buy long-term care insurance on her when she could have qualified for it . Of course , Suze has the means to keep her mother at home to the tune of about $ 25,000 / month . That 's what 24/7 skilled nursing care costs at this point in time . A facility would cost less , but mom naturally wants to stay home as long as possible . Suze is fortunate to have the means to have that happen . Ironically , Suze waited too long to apply for her own long-term care insurance . In waiting , she developed some type of medical condition that precluded her from qualifying for coverage when she did apply . In virtually all of her commentary on planning for retirement , Suze mentions the need to at least explore the financial prudence of applying for some amount of long-term care insurance . Long-term care insurance is not for everyone . But , everyone should have a plan for being taken care of during late life and insurance might be part of that plan .
First of all , there is no federal long-term care program . If a person is or becomes `` indigent '' by state standards , they may qualify to have their long-term care facility expenses paid for by Medicaid -LRB- Medical in CA -RRB- . There is a commission in Washington currently debating if there will be a federal long-term care program , but they will have no power to institute one and it 's doubtful that given our current budget deficit , a comprehensive program could be afforded by either the states or the feds -LRB- Medicaid is a jointly funded and administered medical program for the poor -RRB- . Private long-term care programs at this point in time consist of applying to an insurance company and going through full underwriting to determine insurability . If so , they are issued a long-term care policy of insurance . Only insurance agents that are certified to sell long term care -LRB- most states -RRB- can do so . There is a Partnership long-term care program in 36 states -LRB- plus charter Partnership programs still going in CA , CT , NY , and IN -RRB- . The state departments of health `` partner '' with the person with a Partnership-approved long-term care plan of insurance so that if they blow through the insurance policy maximum benefits and are still alive , the amount of the payout from the insurance company will increase the impoverishment threshold dollar-for-dollar for that person and if the insured 's personal non-exempt assets are lower than what the insurance company has paid out , Medicaid will take over payment of the person 's long-term care costs until s/he dies.Note that there are some limitations1 . The person needs to be in a facility for full payment of costs by Medicaid . -LRB- Home care reimbursement from Medicaid is under $ 300/mo . -RRB- 2 . A lien in the amount of money paid out by Medicaid is levied against the patient 's estate . -LRB- This is currently being debated and is a point of contention with some states and consumer groups . Whether it will actually be done is not certain , but it 's `` on the books '' . -RRB- 3 . While there is a promise that no discrimination will be made between `` Medicaid patients '' and `` paying patients '' in nursing facilities , audits of some facilities have found that there are , in fact , `` Medicaid rooms '' and regular rooms . When discovered , those facilities are supposedly ordered to make no distinction in treatment , care , or placement of patients based on their ability to pay.At this time , it is clear that there is a looming problem of how to take care of the elderly of the boomer generation as that demographic bubble passes through old age . And , though medical technology allows people to live longer , that life is not necessarily better . No solution has yet been proposed at the federal level . The problem will fall to Medicaid for now . Recent surveys have shown that only about 7-8 % of the population owns its own long-term care insurance . Some calculations indicate that Medicaid is solvent for only another 8-10 years as currently administered .
You can get Long Term Care with some pre-existing conditions , but not all of them . Some types of pre-existing conditions are viewed by long term care underwriters as more apt to need long term care in the future than others . Some of these are stroke , MS , diabetes with side effects , dementia , and rheumatoid arthritis . These can cause a decline . Osteoporosis , depression , and other mild conditions can affect ratings and price . On the other hand , some pre-existing conditions that can cause a decline for life insurance will not affect long term care insurance at all . Contact a broker who carries a variety of long term care choices to see if your pre-existing condition will enable you to buy a long term care insurance policy at an affordable price .
According to most sources that gather such information , the percentage of the population of the United States that owns some type of insurance to pay for possible long-term care costs is around 7 % and holding . While theprobability of needing some type of extended-care for performing daily activities before death is quite high -LRB- about 1 in 4 will need up to 2 years of long-term care , slightly lower for men and higher for women -RRB- , two human factors come into play when the discussing transferring the payment of costs for such care to an insurance company : fear and denial . People are generally afraid to even consider how awful it would be to not be able to successfully perform common daily activities and need help from someone to do so . Families assume that since mom and dad took care of them as babies , they will take care of mom and dad when they need roughly the same type of attention and care . Thus , they console their elderly parents not to worry and fret about it . Others are simply in denial . `` Just take me out back and shoot me '' is a common demonstration of denial . One agent I know told me about an adult daughter that took her dad up on that . She asked , `` When should I shoot you ? '' Her father said , `` I 'll tell you when '' . So , when he started to need help getting around and the daughter offered to help , she held up a toy gun and asked , `` Now ? '' The father said , `` No , but soon . '' Of course , his condition became worse and worse until finally , he needed to be admitted to full-time care in a facility . The daughter asked again , as she had over the years , `` Do I shoot you now ? '' But , by this time , the only response her father could give was a tear . He had lost his ability to speak . Cost has become a real deterrent to the purchase of long-term care insurance . However , those that have had to go through the experience of taking care of an aged loved one usually find some way to afford at least some amount of insurance to pay for possible long-term care costs . This insurance is not about the insured . It 's about the care-giver . Approximately 7 % of Americans have figured that out .
Long term care insurance is a morbidity product that is underwritten on the basis on medical and behavioral information . Medical information is based on your gender , age , smoking status , health history and current medical condition . Behavioral information is based on motor vehicle records , vocational and recreational hazards . Most advisers begin addressing long term care insurance with the clients around age 50 . But the buying public tends to purchase long term care insurance around age 60 . A couple of considerations here : You want to buy long term care when your healthy an relatively young to afford the premiums . But even if youre healthy , whats the predisposition of your family regarding assisted living and nursing home confinement ? If theres negative health history , then buying long term care earlier may be more prudent .
end question
start question
auto-insurance
Do Auto Insurance Companies Share Information ?
Auto insurance companies do not share information directly but all information is shared . Insurance companies report incidents to a data base which is then accessed by insurance companies when needed . For example you have an at-fault auto accident and your rates go up . You are upset about this so you shop around for insuranceelsewhere The new company will check the data base for your driving record to see if you have tickets or accidents and then crate your insurance policy accordingly . While incidents on your record may only effect you for a short period of time . For minor incidents 3 years . I have seen data show up that was 10 years old .
Based on my knowledge and experience I do not believe that the auto insurance carriers share information about their clients directly with other carriers . I beilieve that accident information is placed into a data based that is used by all/many insurance carriers to help provide prospects a more accurate rate when receiving a quote and it also makes life easier for the prospect by not having to remember all of the detail of their claims history .
The largest insurers of private passenger vehicles in the USA , in order by US market share , are State Farm , GEICO , Allstate , Progressive , and Farmers Insurance Group . However , the top five companies will vary by state . For example , American Family Insurance is the company with the largest auto insurance market share in Wisconsin . Each state 's auto insurance market is unique . The top five companies in terms of US auto insurance market share are large national companies available in most US states . However , regional insurance companies often have large market share in certain states , like Commerce Insurance in Massachusetts . So , the important auto insurance companies will depend on where you live . The companies with the largest market shares do not necessarily make them the best companies for you . Progressive & GEICO continue to have large gains in market share over recent years , which may be a sign they have lower rates than competitors . Some of the best companies can be smaller regional companies . For example , companies like Erie & Auto-owners usually score higher than many other companies in annual JD Power auto customer satisfaction & auto claims satisfaction studies . The best thing you can do is read reviews & check the ratings of all the major auto insurance companies in your state , and compare their coverage , service , and rates . People really can find a better auto insurance company with much lower rates , if they shop with enough companies .
Auto insurance companies do not share information directly but all information is shared . Insurance companies report incidents to a data base which is then accessed by insurance companies when needed . For example you have an at-fault auto accident and your rates go up . You are upset about this so you shop around for insuranceelsewhere The new company will check the data base for your driving record to see if you have tickets or accidents and then crate your insurance policy accordingly . While incidents on your record may only effect you for a short period of time . For minor incidents 3 years . I have seen data show up that was 10 years old .
Lesson One A Simple Lesson on How the S&P 500 Works -LRB- Since the AP Has No Clue -RRB- Oct. 4 , 2010 4:34 AM ET | 15 comments | About : SPDR S&P 500 Trust ETF -LRB- SPY -RRB- , IVV , VOO , SSO , SH , SDS For More Info contact I came across this disaster of a story from the Associated Press yesterday : `` Apple May Surpass Exxon As Most Valuable Company . '' Interesting - Apple -LRB- AAPL -RRB- is a monster - but I did n't expect the AP -LRB- that 's Associated Press , not to be confused with AAPL -RRB- to attempt to mis-educate their vast audience with this blatantly false nonsense that shows a thorough lack of understanding of how the SPX works : While Apple CEO Steve Jobs will no doubt be happy about his new perch atop the business world , there 's more at stake here than mere bragging rights . As soon as the total value of the company 's shares edges above Exxon 's , Apple will take over the top spot in the Standard and Poor 's 500 , the market index used by most professional money managers . That means that billions of dollars invested in funds that track the index will have to shift their holdings to reflect Apple 's new weighting . Exxon , meanwhile , may see its share price fall from the same effect . That slide could be accelerated by hedge funds and technical traders who make bets based on the rebalancing of major indexes and would be primed to short the shares of Exxon . '' Reminder : The S&P 500 is a market cap weighted index . That means that larger companies have a higher weight in the index . An S&P 500 index fund will own a certain percentage of the outstanding shares of each company . It does n't take a market expert to understand that when Apple 's share price rises , and its market cap rises , its value in your S&P 500 portfolio also rises ! As an S&P indexer , you do n't have to do a thing . Changes in market cap based on share price movement are automatically self adjusting - after all , market cap = share price x shares outstanding . On a quarterly basis , the S&P 500 rebalances its index based on new share issuance and buybacks -LRB- in other words , changes in shares outstanding -RRB- . For example , when Exxon -LRB- XOM -RRB- buys back shares , S&P 500 indexers will need to sell shares of XOM . If XOM does a secondary offering , indexers will need to buy shares of XOM . So if you own one you need to relax it corrects automatic so you need not worry .
The MIB -LRB- Medical Information Bureau -RRB- is a membership organization made up of life and health insurance companies . It exists as a means for the insurance companies to share medical information , similar to how Credit Reporting Agencies exist to share financial information . The MIB members share all kinds of material information that they discover in the process of underwriting insurance policies .
The MIB is a an organization made up of life and health insurance companies that exists to allow them to share medical information , similar to how Credit Reporting Agencies exist to share financial information . Sometimes people are denied a life insurance policy based on information provided by the MIB . While the information provided by the MIB is usually accurate , there could be misinformation there that would cause you to be denied insurance . You can get a copy of any information the MIB has about you by going to their website www.mib.com .
If you pick a website that is safe , you will be safe buying life insurance online . Some things to look at to determine if a website is safe are : 1 -RRB- Are they part of the Better Business Bureau ? If so , how are they rated ? 2 -RRB- Do they have a lot of complaints ? 3 -RRB- Do they share information with other companies , or keep it private ? 4 -RRB- Do their testimonials sound legitimate ? 5 -RRB- Do they show their contact information ? Do they have a physical address ? 6 -RRB- Better yet , do they give any information about their management or employees ? 7 -RRB- Do they show what companies they sell for ? 8 -RRB- Do they provide educational information , or just push for a sale on their website ? 9 -RRB- Do you have the opportunity to talk to a licensed agent ? 10 -RRB- Can you wait to pay for the policy after you get it , or if you pay in advance , are you assured that you can get a refund if you choose not to take it ? If you go to the right website , you can get great service and never have to leave your home . Checking out the points above will help you have a good and safe experience .
A profit sharing plan falls under IRS section 401 . Both a profit sharing plan and 401k are forms of retirement plans that allow employees to make pre-tax contributions to an account where contributions and earnings are not taxed until they are pulled out during the distribution phase . It is important to note that a profit sharing plan does not have to be part of a retirement plan . A profit sharing plan typically allows the employer to decide from year-to-year whether to contribute on behalf of participants . It would make sense that this decision follows the company 's profitability for the previous year . While there are variations of both types of retirement plans , there are many similarities between profit sharing plans and 401k 's such as the ability to take out a loan or pull money out based on a narrow definition of hardship . Both can have non-elective employer contributions . An employer can offer both a profit sharing plan and a 401k . You might find this link to an IRS publication helpful regarding profit sharing plans . WEBSITELINK
In Canada , Split Dollar Insurance is usually referred to as Shared Interest Insurance . The Shared Interest concept is an effective strategy for sharing life insurance costs and benefits.There are a number of family and business scenarios where this concept can be applied . To illustrate , I will outline a business situation as an example . Under the shared interest concept , the death benefit , premiums and cash values of a permanent insurance policy are apportioned between company and the key employee or shareholder , who pay for their separate interests under the policy . With the Company responsible for the life insurance portion of the premium , it receives : - Tax free buffer fund to cushion the shock of death of key person -LRB- protect profits -RRB- - Funds to redeem shares for a buy-sell & / or succession plan - Life insurance death benefit creates a tax free capital dividend that can be paid out to surviving shareholders . With the business owner or key person responsible for the cash value portion of premium , he/she receives : - Tax advantaged accumulation without paying mortality costs - Access to cash value for living benefits -LRB- policy loans , withdrawals , collateral -RRB- - Increased retirement resources . Setting up the Shared Interest concept is complex . There are many issues to consider in addition to what is outlined here . Therefore , it is recommended you seek your own independent professional advice from your lawyer and/or accountant . Note : The Canada Revenue Agency 's -LRB- CRA -RRB- position is that each party in the shared interest agreement must pay a reasonable amount of the premium for the benefit the party receives . In a non-arm 's length situation , a taxable benefit may be considered to be conferred on one of the parties to the agreement unless all parties pay a cost equal to the fair market value of the benefit received . If you have further questions , or feel that I could be of assistance , please do not hesitate to contact me . If you would like to work with a local life insurance broker , you could start with a Google search . For example , if you search for : life insurance broker Halifax or life insurance agent Halifax , my name , along with several others , will come up . You can use the same method to find a life insurance broker in your community .
HIPAA applies to life insurance in that the medical information you share on the application , the results of your paramed exam , and any medical records that are ordered are kept private from anyone except the agency that orders them and the life insurance company that reviews them . Your information is never shared . The Medical Information Bureau does put a code on your MIB to represent any existing health conditions that showed up as a result of your applying for Life Insurance . This is to help prevent multiple fraudulent applications by those who are attempting to use Life Insurance for illegal purposes .
Property insurance is based upon the concept of shared risk . That means that the chances of experiencing a fire that would destroy your home are really low , however , if that were to occur the loss would be quite high . Others property owners face a similar dilemma . If you could share your risk with others you would pay a small amount to avoid losing a large amount . When risk is shared it is considered a pool . Insurance companies form pools and allow people to share the risk of a large loss in exchange for a small loss , the property insurance premium . The amount of this insurance premium is determined by professionals known as actuaries who compare the loss history of millions of pieces of property to develop statistical probabilities of loss for a certain defined piece of property . Additionally they compute the probabilities of different pieces of property and calculate a premium for those losses as well . If you have a home in the forest and I have exactly the same home but live in a suburb the chances are greater that you would experience a catastrophic loss than that I would . This difference is developed mathematically by reviewing millions of losses over a long period of time . As a result we can both be in the same pool but you would pay more than me because you represent a greater risk to the pool . In order to be permitted to do business in your state the insurance commissioner of your state must approve the premiums charged by your insurance company . The commissioners chief concern is that the insurance company is able to meet the promises that it makes . Comparing the losses sustained over time with the premium income of the company helps the commissioner determine the ability of the company to keep its promises -LRB- even in very trying times . -RRB- This then develops into the premium that the company charges you for coverage . It is based on statistics and the companys experience and represents your share of the cost of insuring a pool of risks so that there is sufficient money to take care of a catastrophic loss or anything in between .
In a way , yes they share information . There is a information depository known as the MIB and no , it does not stand for `` Men in Black '' , it stands for Medical Information Bureau . What the MIB contains is information about paid insurance claims , past applications and other information that insurance companies can access -LRB- with your permission -RRB- to check your medical history . So if you apply with 3 different companies , all 3 companies will know it from the MIB . They will ask you about it and it may effect underwriting as the 3 companies look at the combined face amount and decide if they want to be a part of it . Also lets say you answer a question about heart problems as NONE . In checking the MIB the insurance company finds you have a double bypass in 2009 . Changes everything . Think of the MIB as similar to the Credit Bureau , except for medical stuff instead of credit use . Instead of credit history , the MIB contains your health history .
The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act provides protections for an individual 's personal health information . If gives patients numerous rights in that area . As a practical matter , it insures that person health information is not made available to parties without the express permission of the individual . Although there are exceptions about the sharing of information between healthprofessionals , inherent in the act is the fact that we should have control of who sees our health information and how that information is used . That expectation of privacy is extended to prevent family members from gaining information without one 's knowledge and permission .
Medicaid share of cost is a special kind of Medicaid program used in only a few states . I am not aware of a Medicare share of cost . Medicaid share of cost is for those who have too much income or assets to qualify for Medicaid . They have a share of cost factor based on their income and medical bills . When your medical bills equals your share of cost during the month , Medicaid picks up the rest of your medical bills for the remainder of the month .
Preggy provided a very good answer . The question is very broad so to add a bit to the reply here are a few qualifiers . 1 -RRB- Type of Lead - This big . Just about any type of lead can be successful if worked properly but a `` lead '' is not always the same . Leads could be generated online or offline -LRB- such as direct mail -RRB- . The lead could be real-time -LRB- internet -RRB- or aged . Additionally the lead could be exclusive or shared -LRB- more than 1 agent buying the lead -RRB- . These factors all matter . 2 -RRB- My personal experience is based on online shared leads . When buying shared life leads it is important to test a variety of lead companies -LRB- See WEBSITELINK for a list of providers -RRB- . Each lead company will have a few primary lead generation sources so it is important to find one that has good coverage for your area . Additionally your time to respond to a shared lead is vital . Because there will be more than one agent calling the prospect you want to make contact first . Response time is the most important long term success factor with shared leads .
Direct auto insurance is not a type of auto insurance , but a way to buy or method of selling auto insurance . Some auto insurance companies , like USAA & Amica , do not have insurance agents representing them , and sell auto insurance -LRB- and other types of insurance -RRB- direct to the public only . Auto insurance companies selling direct to the public staff call centers with licensed insurance representatives employed by the company , to sell and service the company 's insurance products . Although I think most people benefit from receiving the personal service of an agent , accountable to the customer for providing customer service , advice , and assistance , both USAA & Amica have excellent reputations for claims & customer service . Companies like GEICO & Progressive are known for selling direct to the public , though GEICO has agents available in many large metropolitan areas , and Progressive also sells through independent insurance agents , though the products and rates will be different than buying direct . When you call a company selling direct for an auto insurance quote , you speak with a company employee licensed to sell insurance , working from a call center , most likely out-of state -LRB- but not outside of the USA -RRB- . If you buy the auto insurance policy , there is no one person at the company responsible for your account , as there would be , if you purchased a policy through an agent . So , a company employee sells you the auto insurance policy , but if you call back with a question , or to make a policy change liking adding or removing a car , whichever employee answering the phone will help you , much like you receive help when you call your cable TV company . GEICO & Progressive seem to compete on price more than other companies , but buying direct does not always mean a better price . Selling direct mean no agent commissions to pay , but selling direct has other costs , like more marketing costs for TV & media ads , employee salaries and benefits . A wise auto insurance shopper decides on the coverage they need , then check the rates of all the major auto insurance companies in their state , regardless of whether the company sells direct , through their own local agents , or through independent insurance agents .
I 'll share a common answer to a common question . It depends . Which company offers the cheapest auto insurance in Washington depends primarily on the insuredthe client . With all the variables companies use to get the final price , there is no way to tell what companies offers the cheapest rates for all clients all the time . In fact , most insurance companies do n't want to be the cheapest for every client . Most companies want to `` win '' accounts based on price 30-40 % of the time . With that information , it 's important to allow a trusted , licensed agent to shop multiple companies for you .
Based on my knowledge and experience I do not believe that the auto insurance carriers share information about their clients directly with other carriers . I beilieve that accident information is placed into a data based that is used by all/many insurance carriers to help provide prospects a more accurate rate when receiving a quote and it also makes life easier for the prospect by not having to remember all of the detail of their claims history .
A Personal Auto Policy -LRB- PAP -RRB- generally comes with five coverages included in the premium . 1 . Auto Liability ... protects you from claims other people make against you arising from auto accidents 2 . Uninsured/Underinsured Motorists Liability -LRB- UIM -RRB- ... protects you for claims you make against other drivers who do not have insurance or do not have enough insurance 3 . Medical Payments ... pays money to doctors and hospitals for your medical expenses arising out of auto accidents 4 . Collision ... pays for damage to your car arising out of auto accidents where you collide with another car or object , like a tree . 5 . Comprehensive ... pays for damage to your car arising out accidents that are other than collision , for example , flood , fire and theft . When you ask , `` How Much Auto Insurance Do I Need ? '' , I 'm assuming you mean # 1 , Auto Liability so I 'll limit my answer to that coverage . In subsequent postings , I 'll answer how much you need for the other coverages . So , how much Auto Liability Insurance do you need ? It depends . If you just want to get on the road and be legal about it , in New Jersey , the minimum limit of insurance is $ 35,000 for each accident . You are also required to purchase Uninsured/Underinsured Motorists Liability and Medical Payments and they also have minimum limit requirements . Other states have similar minimum limit requirements and they are spelled out at each state 's insurance department website . Minimum limit policies will get you on the road , but they are not a smart use of your dollars . Consider an auto accident where you strike a Lawyer 's Mercedes ... his new Mercedes . Think $ 35,000 will take care of everything ? I would n't bet on it . And if $ 35,000 is not enough , you 'll pay personally for a long time . Now , if your primary goal is adequate protection for you , your family and your assets , you need to take a step back . Liability claims against you arising out of the use of an auto is one area you should be concerned about . You should also be concerned about liability claims arising out of owning a home , operating a boat or a motorcycle or an RV . Liability claims can also arise from owning vacation property . You can trigger a claim . Your spouse can trigger a claim and your children can trigger a claim . Considering all the people in your life who can trigger a claim and all the ways they can do it , How much is enough liability insurance ? How much should you buy ? Answer : I do n't know . But I do know EVERY smart insurance consumer , concerned about `` how much insurance is enough ? '' should purchase a $ 1 million Personal Umbrella Policy . A Personal Umbrella Policy is a secondary policy . Your auto policy , homeowner policy , boat policy , and so on are all primary policies . Each primary policy has its own limit of insurance . In the event of an accident -LRB- in the home , in the car or on the water -RRB- , you have a primary policy to protect you . If the amount of primary insurance is not enough to pay a claim , the Personal Umbrella policy adds a million dollar cushion . Is a Personal Umbrella policy expensive ? No . A million dollar umbrella GENERALLY starts around $ 125 . That 's $ 125 for $ 1,000,000 of liability protection you can use over your auto insurance or your homeowner insurance or your boat insurance and so on and so on . If there is a better deal in the insurance business , I 'm not aware of it . Now if you 're sold on the idea that a Personal Umbrella Policy has merit , we need to return to your original question : `` How much Auto Liability Insurance do I need ? '' You need an amount of insurance that satisfies the minimum requirements of the Personal Umbrella Policy . For example , if your Personal Umbrella Policy requires you have a $ 300,000 Personal Auto Liability Limit , that 's what you need to buy for your auto policy . If the requirement is $ 300,000 and you have $ 250,000 , there will be a $ 50,000 gap in the event of a serious claim . Again , for example , you 're responsible for a serious auto accident . It ends up costing $ 600,000 . Your auto policy will pay $ 250,000 , you 'll have to pay $ 50,000 and then the umbrella will pay the remaining $ 300,000 . So you can see , you need to buy the correct amount of auto and home insurance and the correct amount for any other primary policy so you do n't have a gap in coverage . Can you buy a Personal Umbrella Policy with a limit higher than $ 1 million ? You can , but the higher the limit , the greater the scrutiny . I hope I 've answered your question , but if I have n't , feel free to call , fax or email me .
end question
start question
medicare-insurance
Can You Claim Acupuncture On Medicare ?
No , acupuncture is not a medically approved expense by Medicare . You can not claim acupuncture on Medicare because the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services -LRB- CMS -RRB- has classified it as an Alternative Therapy , and Medicare will not pay for Alternative Therapy . They only reimburse therapies that they feel have been proven effective by scientific standards .
No , acupuncture is not a medically approved expense by Medicare . You can not claim acupuncture on Medicare because the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services -LRB- CMS -RRB- has classified it as an Alternative Therapy , and Medicare will not pay for Alternative Therapy . They only reimburse therapies that they feel have been proven effective by scientific standards .
Generally AETNA health insurance plans cover acupuncture but only under specific circumstances -LRB- generally in lieu of using general anesthesia for a specific medical or dental procedure covered under the health insurance policy -RRB- and for relatively short list of medical situations such as lower back pain , migraines and a few other conditions . The list of conditions for which AETNA -LRB- or virtually any major medical insurance provider -RRB- will not cover acupuncture is far longer than the list of conditions that qualify . Before using acupuncture you should have your medical provider check with AETNA 's preauthorization department to determine if your specific condition will qualify for coverage and , if so , from what specific providers .
Coverage for acupuncture typically varies from one company to another , with many offering no coverage at all . While the Affordable Care Act does require all new health plans to cover many tyeps of therapies , acupuncture is still not regarded as a traditional medical in most Western societies and , as such , is typically not covered by most health insurance providers . That aside , there are some companies , including Aetna and Blue Cross Blue Shield -LRB- in some states -RRB- that do offer a limited number of acupuncture visits each year . To find the best plan for your personal situation , it is best to speak with a licensed , independent agent that works with most , if not all , the insurance companies in your area . That will give you the chance to discuss the exact options available to you , and provide the expert guidance needed to select the best possible plan for your needs .
Medicare Supplement Plan F -LRB- Medigap -RRB- is the most comprehensive coverage available for seniors . There are items not covered or partially covered . If Medicare approves treatment , Medigap Plan F will cover copays , co-insurance and deductibles related to that specific item . However , if any treatment is denied coverage by Medicare , that particular treatment would not be covered by Medigap Plan F. Simply put , Plan F follows the lead of approved Medicare coverage . Items typically not covered by Plan F include acupuncture , dental work , vision exams and skilled nursing care beyond the first 100 days . There is also a limit on the total number of hospitalization days covered - it 's around 455 days under Plan F . If you are hospitalized and require blood , Plan F covers the first 3 pints . If you are travelling abroad and have a medical emergency , Plan F usually requires you to pay a $ 250 deductible but will cover up to $ 50,000 . Drug coverage is not included with Plan F -LRB- that would be Plan D -RRB- .
Some of the items and services that Medicare does n't cover include : < a title = '' Services that include medical and non-medical care provided to people who are unable to perform basic activities of daily living , like dressing or bathing . Long-term supports and services can be provided at home , in the community , in assisted living , or in nursing homes . Individuals may need long-term supports and services at any age . Medicare and most health insurance plans do n't pay for long-term care . '' href = '' WEBSITELINK rel = `` nofollow '' > Long-term care -LRB- also called < a title = '' Non-skilled personal care , like help with activities of daily living like bathing , dressing , eating , getting in or out of a bed or chair , moving around , and using the bathroom . It may also include the kind of health-related care that most people do themselves , like using eye drops . In most cases , Medicare does n't pay for custodial care . '' href = '' WEBSITELINK rel = `` nofollow '' > custodial care -RRB- Most dental care Eye examinations related to prescribing glasses Dentures Cosmetic surgery Acupuncture Hearing aids and exams for fitting them Routine foot care You can go to the medicare.gov website and check on the main page if any test , item or service is covered by Medicare .
Chiropractic care is covered by Medicare in some situations . Medicare Part B pays for a chiropractor 's manual manipulation of the spine to correct subluxation . If a hand held device is used during the manual manipulation , the use of the device is not covered . Initial physical exams , evaluations , X-rays , acupuncture , physical therapy , supplements and orthopedic devices prescribed or provided by a chiropractor are NOT covered .
If you look on page 56 of your Medicare and You book there is a list of things that Medicare will not cover like Long-term care or custodial care , routine dental or eye care , dentures , acupuncture , hearing aids and exams for fitting them and yes cosmetic surgery is also not covered . With that being said if your doctor find thats it is medically necessary to perform the reduction to elevate pressure from the spinal column that is causing you sever back pain , then it may be covered but you need to check with your doctor and get his professional opinion .
No , acupuncture is not covered by Medicare . It is an `` alternative therapy '' that has not been scientifically proven to be effective as an analgesic , anesthetic , or other therapeutic purposes , per the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services . Acupuncture expenses fall 100 % on the shoulders of the patient receiving that procedure .
Medicare Advantage is a private form of Medicare run by insurance companies . When you enroll in a Medicare Advantage plan you are no longer participating in original Medicare . Your doctor and other providers file claims with your Advantage insurance carrier , not with Medicare . Your Advantage carrier adjudicates the claim and pays it if approved . Advantage plans are not a supplement to Medicare , they replace Medicare . Amplification . Some people are confused about this since Advantage plans are often referred to as Medicare Part C . When you enroll in an Advantage plan your benefits are provided by an insurance carrier that is a sub-contractor of Medicare . Other than your Medicare Part B premium -LRB- which is still paid to Medicare , or deducted from your Social Security check -RRB- premiums -LRB- if any -RRB- for your benefits are paid to the Advantage carrier . Medicare does not review or adjudicate claims . Medicare does not resolve claim disputes you may have with your Advantage carrier . All of your benefits are covered and provided by your Advantage policy . If you decide to drop your Advantage coverage you have a right to switch to original Medicare . Original Medicare and Medicare Advantage are two separate and distinct systems of providing health insurance . Advantage plans cover the same medical conditions as Medicare -LRB- except Advantage carriers will not issue a policy if you have ESRD -RRB- but the benefits and administration are completely separate . Consider this . Medicare Part D is an insured benefit you purchase from an insurance carrier . The drug plans are not offered direct by Medicare and your claims are handled by the insurance carrier or the PBM that manages the coverage for them . Medicare Part C and D are completely independent from Medicare .
No you can not `` run out of Medicare '' , Medicare does not have a lifetime cap . This means that your medicare coverage will pay according to its current coverage level for as long as your claims are being approved . However , Medicare can deny a claim based on a number of factors on a case by case basis . If a claim is denied by Medicare you will not be covered for that particular treatment . A denied claim does not mean that your medicare has been completely exhausted , it just means that Medicare has determined the treatment does not qualify for coverage . If you have a Medicare Supplement plan you should know that if Medicare denies a claim your supplement plan will not pay at all . If you would like more information on you medicare supplement coverage please visit www.themedigapmarket.com or for more info on your medicare coverage www.medicare.gov .
Humana Choice PPO would be a Medicare Advantage plan . When you are on Medicare and have a Medicare Advantage plan , coverage falls under the benefits described in your Medicare Advantage plan . It does not get billed to Medicare first and then to the Medicare Advantage plan carrier -LRB- in this case Humana -RRB- or vice versa . It would only be billed through Humana - the carrier pays their portion and you would be responsible for the portion dictacted by the plan benefits -LRB- e.g. you may be responsible for a deductible and then a coinsurance/copayment amount , etc. -RRB- . Medicare Advantage plans are senior health insurance plans that work similarly to the under 65 health plans -LRB- deductibles , copays , coinsurances , max out of pocket expenses , networks , etc. -RRB- . In short , the gov ' t pays the carrier x number of dollars for each enrollee under the plan and the carrier takes the risk of expenses . So when you have a claim , the claim gets processed through the carrier rather than directly to Medicare . Medicare Supplement plans -LRB- also known as Medigap plans -RRB- operate as a supplement -LRB- key work there - supplement -RRB- to original Medicare -LRB- your Part A & Part B coverage -RRB- . When you have Medicare and a Medicare Supplement plan , the physician -LRB- or hospital or other facility -RRB- bills Medicare and then bills the carrier for their portion of charges - depending on which plan letter you have , you may be responsible for a small portion or nothing at all . The idea of a Medicare Supplement plan is to create a predictable expense structure for your healthcare needs rather than taking on a larger portion of risk of expenses on claims . Plus , the Medicare Supplement plan structure allows you to go to any doctor that takes Medicare , meaning no networks and they are not restricted to annual enrollment periods like Medicare Advantage plans are . If you want to take a look at a Medicare Supplement plan to see how it compares , I can help you with that . The Medicare Advantage Disenrollment Period -LRB- MADP -RRB- is from January 1 - February 14 of each year so you have an option to change if you decide to do so . Please note , depending on several factors , you may or may not be subject to medical underwriting for a Medicare Supplement plan -LRB- e.g. whether you are new to Medicare , this is your first time in a Medicare Advantage plan , whether you have a guaranteed-issue right , etc. - I can help determine this -RRB- . My contact information is cited on my agent profile - you can access it by clicking on the `` contact me '' button . I hope the information is helpful - please let me know if you have any other questions I can assist with . Thanks very much .
You can always change insurance companies , there 's nothing to stop you . However , you may want to stick with what you have during a claim . Legally , an insurance company has to settle claims according to their policy whether you 're still insured with them or not . In practice , these are human beings working on your claim and they may not always give you consideration if you 've cancelled your coverage with them . Let 's look at an example . Let 's say you 've gotten into an accident and you 're car is in the body shop . You want OEM parts installed on your car , but the insurance company wants to use aftermarket parts because they cost less . They have more of an incentive to honor your request if you 're still insured with them because they see an opportunity to offset your claim with future premiums . Another factor to consider is the company you want to go to . They may not want to insure a car that has unrepaired damage . It 's totally up to the company . Now , in my experience , you would only ask the question if you do n't like how your claim is being handled . If you were totally satisfied , you would n't think about switching . My advice is to stay with your current company and negotiate with their claims department to get your claim settled to your satisfaction . Check your policy , all companies have an appeals process if you do n't agree with how your claim is being settled . Take advantage of it . You may get some consideration and a better settlement . If you 're still unsatisfied , you can always consider the courts , but this is a risky proposition unless you 're sure you 're in the right . After your claim is settled , you can explore new companies . A good agent will help you with claims if you 're not satisfied . They can not always ensure you 'll get what you want , but a good one will go to bat for you . In my opinion , finding the right advisor is the most important decision you make . In the long run , you 'll come out ahead even if they 're more expensive now . The cost of your coverage is n't just the premium , it 's what it costs you in time , money , and aggravation at claim time .
When you need to file a Homeowners Insurance Claim , the best and quickest way to handle it is to call the CLAIMS Telephone number listed on your Homeowners Insurance declarations page . Most carriers have a 24 Hour reporting line for claims ; the station is staffed by an individual trained to take an initial report and pass it on to the assigned claims adjustor based on the type of claim and geographical location of the loss . Once the preliminary report is taken , a claims number is assigned , an adjustor is assigned and the preliminary record is report to the National Database also known as CLUE ; CLUE is a tool used industry wide to review prior claims activity on homes . The CLUE report will later be updated eventual showing the Closed Status and total amount paid by the insurance carrier to resolve the claim . When making the initial claim report , it is beneficial to only offer a simple and general explanation of the nature of the loss ; it is always better to give all the details directly to the claims adjustor as the initial claims report is usually not taken by a person licensed and trained with the capabilities of the insurance adjustor.In most cases , the insurance carrier will assign and adjustor who will make an initial contact within 1 business day . The adjustor will make an appointment to come out and review the damages claimed , a detailed estimate of the required repairs will be prepared and the adjustor willinterpret the policy to determine if and to what extent coverage applies to the damage incurred ; the final process will be a resolution letter mailed to the insured with a full accounting of the situation and perhaps an associated check for repairs . In some cases , an initial payment may be offered holding back thedepreciated portion of the loss until thedamages or items are replaced after which the carrier will reimburse the insured for the full replacement cost of the items as long as the policy coverseverything on a replacement cost basis . Any specificquestions regarding a loss should be directly discussed with the claims adjustorwho is licensed and responsible to handle the complete transaction and explain the processto the insured . Prior to any claim occurrence , it may alsobe a good idea to contact a licensed insurance representative to learn the process and best recommended method of handling thesituation should youencounter a claim .
Home Insurance contracts differ in all States ; they are all governed by the Department/Division of Insurance dictating exactly how to abide by the rules of the particular State . Once abiding by the rules of each State , carriers also have differences in handling claims and policy adjustments thereafter . In States where a Claims Free discount is allowed , the discount will be removed on the following renewal if a claim has been filed , there may also be a claims surcharge assessed in addition . Some carriers have allowances for small claims below a certain pay out whereby the insured would lose the Claims Free discount but not be assessed a further surcharge.Since it will be close to impossible to get a clear answer to this question , the following is the best rule of thumb for policyholders : DO NOT USE YOUR INSURANCE POLICY AS A CHECK BOOK ! Property Insurance is meant to protect the insured against unforeseen and unaffordable sudden & accidental perils . The home should always be well maintained and display pride of ownership for ` preferred ' risks . For example , if due to high winds a branch would be blown off a tree and simply break a window or damage a few roof tiles , this is typically not what one would purchase insurance for ; on the other hand , if there is an unforeseen electrical fault causing a house fire or perhaps the occurrence of a devastating storm , this is where insurance becomes an essential part of the recovery process . Insurance contracts are designed with a Deductible ; the deductible is the amount deducted from a Claims Payout . The actual purpose of the Deductible is to reduce the carrier 's risk exposure to small claims , the lower the deductible , the higher the premium . Clients that purchase insurance with a higher deductible make a statement acknowledging that small claims will not be brought to the carrier thus prompting the carrier to accept a lower premium for a lower risk exposure . Once a claim is filed with a Home Insurance Carrier , a claims number is assigned and the claim is reported electronically to the National Claims Database -LRB- CLUE -RRB- . The purpose of this reporting process is for the industry to share information regarding the risk thereby deterring any dishonest practices in attempting to misrepresent risk to an alternate carrier at a future point . This is a great tool that has been used for many years preventing carriers from taking on adverse risk . The answer to this question was carefully orchestrated to provide a better understanding regarding the underwriting and claims process which would lead ultimately to premium assessment . It is strongly suggested that home owners fully understand this process and contact a licensed professional to answer any further questions regarding the process .
You are not allowed to have both a Medigap and Medicare Advantage plan . Even if you were , you do n't need both . When you enroll in a Medicare Advantage plan you are essentially in a privatized Medicare plan . Your claims are handled by the insurance carrier . Claims are filed with the carrier , not Medicare . Any issues you have are handled by your carrier . If you have original Medicare , you should consider a Medigap plan to limit your out of pocket exposure . In this arrangement your provider files the claim for you with Medicare who adjudicates the claim then sends it on to your Medigap carrier .
In most cases , you do not need to file a claim to Medicare , as doctors/hospitals are required to file these claims for you in a timely manner for Medicare-covered services and supplies . If , however , your doctor has not filed a claim , you can contact them and ask them to do so or call Medicare at 1-800-MEDICARE . If it is close to the time limit -LRB- 12 months -RRB- and your doctor has not filed the claim , you can do so using Medicare 's Patient Request for Medicare Payment Form -LRB- CMS-1490S -RRB- . WEBSITELINK
Let me differentiate between a liability claim and a property claim . If you are sued , notify the claims office of the insurance company immediately . Do not sign any papers and do not make any statements to agents of the individual or company suing you . Never hesitate to submit a liability claim . If your home is uninhabitable because of a covered loss such as fire or lightning call the insurance company claims office immediately . If you are the victim of a disaster , call the claims office immediately . Many insurance companies have mobile claims operations that are dispatched to help victims of disasters . Any damage to your home is a big deal . However , if the damage is not more than two times your deductible , and it pays to know your deductible , call your agent first . Property insurance policies have varying features that can either reduce the deductible or reduce the premium if your policy is claims free . Sometimes a little pencil work will show that it is better to forgo the claim as the reductions you receive for being claims free could be greater than the amount you would recover . If there is water damage and you can not reach your agent quickly enough contact the claims office because water damage only gets worse ! Often a quick responding water mitigation team can reduce and almost eliminate the loss .
Any time you have a claim , Medicare must approve the medical necessity of that claim and the amount they will pay . If a claim is not approved Medicare will not pay . Medicare when paying claims has a set payment they will approve for a specific procedure based on how that procedure is billed . Medicare will only pay 80 % of that approved amount for Part B covered charges . A doctor can not bill for more than 15 % of the Medicare approved charges . Some states like Ohio do not allow the 15 % excess charges . A doctor who accepts Medicare can not balance bill for more than the approved amount .
Medicare is administered by the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services -LRB- CMMS -RRB- . This is a division of Social Security charged with setting the rules and guidelines of Medicare and Medicare related matters . Original Medicare , Medicare Advantage Plans , and Medicare Prescription Drug Plans fall under this umbrella . If you are in original Medicare then Medicare will pay any claims . If you select a Medicare Advantage Plan , then Medicare pays the insurance company to administer the claims .
end question
start question
auto-insurance
What Does All State Auto Comprehensive Insurance Cover ?
I am assuming your are referring to the `` Comprehensive '' coverage - also called Other Than Collision - found in an auto insurance policy . State Auto is what we call a `` Super '' regional carrier as they are not nationwide , but are in more than a couple regional states . While the basic structure of the auto policy contract is the same company wide , they do tweak their contract based on state laws and state performance ratios . That being said , generally speaking State Auto 's comp coverage would include things like - fire , theft , water damage , glass damage , break-ins and hitting an animal like a deer . Comprehensive claims are subject to the deductible listed on your policy . Give your local State Auto independent agent a call and discuss the specifics of your state and policy language .
I 'm afraid you have confused what comprehensive insurance means . In regards to comprehensive insurance , `` comprehensive '' is a component of auto insurance , but not a type of insurance . comprehensive coverage protects your vehicle from losses that occur by means other than collision . Examples include theft , vandalism , weather damage , hitting a deer , etc. . As far as borrowing someone else 's vehicle , your auto insurance does n't cover you . Their insurance does . That is , auto insurance always follows the vehicle , not the driver .
I am assuming your are referring to the `` Comprehensive '' coverage - also called Other Than Collision - found in an auto insurance policy . State Auto is what we call a `` Super '' regional carrier as they are not nationwide , but are in more than a couple regional states . While the basic structure of the auto policy contract is the same company wide , they do tweak their contract based on state laws and state performance ratios . That being said , generally speaking State Auto 's comp coverage would include things like - fire , theft , water damage , glass damage , break-ins and hitting an animal like a deer . Comprehensive claims are subject to the deductible listed on your policy . Give your local State Auto independent agent a call and discuss the specifics of your state and policy language .
Assuming the GPS was stolen from inside an insured auto , the answer is maybe . If the GPS was installed in the car -LRB- e.g. , permanently attached in the dashboard -RRB- and the car had comprehensive coverage , then the GPS theft would be covered subject to the comprehensive deductible . However , if the GPS was of the type like mine that you affix to the windshield with a suction device , that would not be considered `` installed equipment '' and would not be eligible for the car 's comprehensive coverage . In that case , your only other possibility for coverage on the auto insurance would be if your policy provided additional coverage for personal items inside the car . Most standard auto coverage forms do not include additional coverage for personal items , but some do - usually capped at $ 1,000 - $ 2,000 . Also , your auto policy may have an added endorsement that provides coverage for personal items . The last resort - you may be able to claim the GPS theft on your homeowners -LRB- or renters policy -RRB- if the auto policy does not cover it .
Auto glass is covered on an auto insurance policy as long as you carry physical damage coverage . Physical damage coverage would be comprehensive or collision . If the car is in an accident and the glass is broken collision would pick up the damage minus yourcollisiondeductible . If the damage came from a non collision related incident such as a rock hitting thewindshieldor vandalism for example these types of situations would fall under comprehensive coverage . Many insurance carriers now offer zero -LRB- 0 -RRB- deductible for glass on the comprehensive deductible . For example : you could purchase a $ 500.00 deductiblefor any comprehensive loss on your auto policy but have a zero -LRB- 0 -RRB- deductible if the comprehensive loss was glass . Usually a slight extra premium applies for this coverage . Talk to your local agent to see if this is an option available in your area .
It does . Comprehensive , aka other than collision , covers damages to the auto that is not collision related . As with collision , comprehensive coverage will also have its own deductible . Now in my state , colliding with a deer is considered a comprehensive claim . It is best to ask your local insurance agent as there are variations state to state .
Full coverage on auto insurance covers the physical damage done to YOUR vehicle . Liability coverage only will cover claims brought against you in an accident . `` Full coverage '' has two parts , comprehensive coverage -LRB- if a tree falls on your car , or a hail storm does damage to your vehicle , basically most occurrences when you are not in the vehicle -RRB- , and collision coverage , which covers the physical damage done to your vehicle in an accident . You can choose to get comprehensive only , or comprehensive and collision , but not collision without comprehensive . Note : the deductibles for each can be different . You will typically save more money by raising your collision deductible compared to raising your comprehensive deductible .
Comprehensive coverage applies to damage to your vehicle for anything other than a collision . Some examples would be hail damage , animal strikes , windshield breakage , or vandalism . Auto insurance is divided into the Liability portion and the damage to your auto portion . Liability is what many states require and what you need to drive another car . Collision and Comprehensive may cover another car only in certain circumstances such as temporarily renting a vehicle . Usually to have Comprehensive coverage you would also have liability coverage as well unless you are storing your vehicl . If you are going to drive the vehicle or any vehicle you need to carry liability .
Homeowners Insurance does not cover your auto while in the garage . Homeowners insurance covers the home and not autos . Only your auto insurance policy can protect your auto while in the garage . If you have an auto you do not drive and just store in your garage I would recommend purchasing comprehensive coverage only on your auto .
An auto isnurance policy is made up of several different coverages which cover a variety of things . Keep in mind insurance is also State specific , so the specific coverages that make up an auto policy can vary from state to state . In my state -LRB- TN -RRB- , the typical policy is made up of ; Liability - pays to the injuries or others subject to your policy limits Property Damage - Pays to fix damaged property of other subject to your policy limits Medical Payments - paid to you or your passengers subject to the policy limits Uninsured/underinsured motorist - covers you if another does n't have any or enough insurance subject to policy limits Comprehensive - subject tothe policydeductible , covers things like fire , theft , water , glass or collision with an animal . Collision - subject to a policy deductible covers damage to your car when the accident is your fault . There are other coverages like rental car expence , towing , etc. that can be added to a policy . The above is a very brief overview . Check out WEBSITELINK for a pretty indepth explanation of an auto insurance policy . It is also best to speak with a local independent agent in your area and ask them about speciifcs for your state and your personal needs .
There are essentially two parts to an auto insurance policy . Liability coverage , or as some refer to it as PL/PD and physical damage coverage . Most states require some form of liability coverage in order to drive your vehicle legally . But physical damage is an optional coverage you can purchase to protect your vehicle . The most common coverage you will find under the physical damage is comprehensive and collision coverage . Where collision coverage covers just that , collision with another vehicle , comprehensive coverage picks up other than collision coverages . Comprehensive provides coverage for losses from fire , theft , hail , falling objects , glass breakage and car/animal accidents . Comprehensive provides coverage for loss or damage to your vehicle and its equipment cause by theft , larceny or robbery . It also provides coverage in the event you are tricked into giving your vehicle to another person under false pretenses . Please note that you are subject to your deductible in the event of a loss . What this means is that the insurance company will pay you for the loss less your deductible which may range from $ 0 to $ 500 dollars depending on your insurance carrier . To stay competitive some insurance companies may offer special perks in their auto coverage such as waiving the deductibles or providing additional coverage such as rental car coverage in the event of theft . So be sure to check with your insurance agent or carrier to see if they provide this coverage .
A Personal Auto Policy -LRB- PAP -RRB- generally comes with five coverages included in the premium . 1 . Auto Liability ... protects you from claims other people make against you arising from auto accidents 2 . Uninsured/Underinsured Motorists Liability -LRB- UIM -RRB- ... protects you for claims you make against other drivers who do not have insurance or do not have enough insurance 3 . Medical Payments ... pays money to doctors and hospitals for your medical expenses arising out of auto accidents 4 . Collision ... pays for damage to your car arising out of auto accidents where you collide with another car or object , like a tree . 5 . Comprehensive ... pays for damage to your car arising out accidents that are other than collision , for example , flood , fire and theft . When you ask , `` How Much Auto Insurance Do I Need ? '' , I 'm assuming you mean # 1 , Auto Liability so I 'll limit my answer to that coverage . In subsequent postings , I 'll answer how much you need for the other coverages . So , how much Auto Liability Insurance do you need ? It depends . If you just want to get on the road and be legal about it , in New Jersey , the minimum limit of insurance is $ 35,000 for each accident . You are also required to purchase Uninsured/Underinsured Motorists Liability and Medical Payments and they also have minimum limit requirements . Other states have similar minimum limit requirements and they are spelled out at each state 's insurance department website . Minimum limit policies will get you on the road , but they are not a smart use of your dollars . Consider an auto accident where you strike a Lawyer 's Mercedes ... his new Mercedes . Think $ 35,000 will take care of everything ? I would n't bet on it . And if $ 35,000 is not enough , you 'll pay personally for a long time . Now , if your primary goal is adequate protection for you , your family and your assets , you need to take a step back . Liability claims against you arising out of the use of an auto is one area you should be concerned about . You should also be concerned about liability claims arising out of owning a home , operating a boat or a motorcycle or an RV . Liability claims can also arise from owning vacation property . You can trigger a claim . Your spouse can trigger a claim and your children can trigger a claim . Considering all the people in your life who can trigger a claim and all the ways they can do it , How much is enough liability insurance ? How much should you buy ? Answer : I do n't know . But I do know EVERY smart insurance consumer , concerned about `` how much insurance is enough ? '' should purchase a $ 1 million Personal Umbrella Policy . A Personal Umbrella Policy is a secondary policy . Your auto policy , homeowner policy , boat policy , and so on are all primary policies . Each primary policy has its own limit of insurance . In the event of an accident -LRB- in the home , in the car or on the water -RRB- , you have a primary policy to protect you . If the amount of primary insurance is not enough to pay a claim , the Personal Umbrella policy adds a million dollar cushion . Is a Personal Umbrella policy expensive ? No . A million dollar umbrella GENERALLY starts around $ 125 . That 's $ 125 for $ 1,000,000 of liability protection you can use over your auto insurance or your homeowner insurance or your boat insurance and so on and so on . If there is a better deal in the insurance business , I 'm not aware of it . Now if you 're sold on the idea that a Personal Umbrella Policy has merit , we need to return to your original question : `` How much Auto Liability Insurance do I need ? '' You need an amount of insurance that satisfies the minimum requirements of the Personal Umbrella Policy . For example , if your Personal Umbrella Policy requires you have a $ 300,000 Personal Auto Liability Limit , that 's what you need to buy for your auto policy . If the requirement is $ 300,000 and you have $ 250,000 , there will be a $ 50,000 gap in the event of a serious claim . Again , for example , you 're responsible for a serious auto accident . It ends up costing $ 600,000 . Your auto policy will pay $ 250,000 , you 'll have to pay $ 50,000 and then the umbrella will pay the remaining $ 300,000 . So you can see , you need to buy the correct amount of auto and home insurance and the correct amount for any other primary policy so you do n't have a gap in coverage . Can you buy a Personal Umbrella Policy with a limit higher than $ 1 million ? You can , but the higher the limit , the greater the scrutiny . I hope I 've answered your question , but if I have n't , feel free to call , fax or email me .
If your asking will renters insurance cover a stolen car the answer is no . Auto insurance comprehensive coverage will cover a stolen car . If you asking if any of your personal items left in the car are covered for theft then the answer is theft from a vehicle is a covered peril . Now it would depend on what the item actually was that is in question and will the stolen item meet the deductible . Also if the auto was damaged during the incident you could potentially have two claims . One one the auto for the damage to the vehicle and on for your personal property that was in the vehicle . Also please note , items permanently mounted to your auto are part of the auto .
The largest insurers of private passenger vehicles in the USA , in order by US market share , are State Farm , GEICO , Allstate , Progressive , and Farmers Insurance Group . However , the top five companies will vary by state . For example , American Family Insurance is the company with the largest auto insurance market share in Wisconsin . Each state 's auto insurance market is unique . The top five companies in terms of US auto insurance market share are large national companies available in most US states . However , regional insurance companies often have large market share in certain states , like Commerce Insurance in Massachusetts . So , the important auto insurance companies will depend on where you live . The companies with the largest market shares do not necessarily make them the best companies for you . Progressive & GEICO continue to have large gains in market share over recent years , which may be a sign they have lower rates than competitors . Some of the best companies can be smaller regional companies . For example , companies like Erie & Auto-owners usually score higher than many other companies in annual JD Power auto customer satisfaction & auto claims satisfaction studies . The best thing you can do is read reviews & check the ratings of all the major auto insurance companies in your state , and compare their coverage , service , and rates . People really can find a better auto insurance company with much lower rates , if they shop with enough companies .
That is a great question ! If you are living in one of the Northern States where snowmobiles can see some use , it 's a good bet that you 'll be required to have some insurance coverage . There are a few really good reasons why it makes sense to get a policy . The first is that any damages or personal injuries that might occur on your property as a rule wo n't be covered by your homeowners policy . If something bad were to happen , you would be left unprotected for the liabilities of costs and damages . Your snowmobile -LRB- and trailer , if you have one -RRB- wo n't be covered under your auto policy either . So again , you would be liable for any damages if something bad were to happen . So what should you purchase ? I 'd strongly recommend the same kind of coverage that you 'd buy for your car - full coverage with comprehensive , collision , and liability . Here 's why - collision is obvious , if you run into something , or roll your sled , it will be covered by this part of the policy . The comprehensive portion covers the other stuff - hitting a deer , water damage busting thru ice , etc. . The liability part covers you for damage to riders , or property . You can add trailers to your policy coverage with some carriers , and that makes sense , as it 's cheap , and does n't get covered by most auto coverage . Sled policies are generally fairly inexpensive , and often can be discounted with multiple sleds , proof of training classes , and bundling with other policies . Most will not charge for non-use periods also . I 'd say it 's definitely something to have before you ever get on your sled , okay ? -LRB- I love this question , I 'm from up North originally myself , and do n't get to answer too many of these type questions here in Texas ! -RRB- Be safe , have fun , and thanks for asking !
Falling objects whether they are trees , airplane parts , stones from a gravel truck or something else are covered under comprehensive . Comprehensive covers the physical damage of your vehicle for everything except collision . Fire , theft , vandalism , as well as chipped windshields are a typical comprehensive claim . Comprehensive which is an optional coverage since it covers your vehicle usually has a deductible . Once you satisfy the deductible the insurance company pays the rest . It can be frustrating to pay the deductible when you have n't done anything wrong . If the damage was caused by someone who was negligent , let your insurance company know so that they can subrogate for your deductible as well as what they paid out . The age of the tree does n't matter , but the condition might especially if you have proof that the owner knew .
Your auto insurance will cover a falling tree on your car under the comprehensive coverage 's minus your deductible . If you carry comprehensive coverage on your vehicle then your covered . Comprehensive coverage includes all non collision physical damages that may occur to your vehicle . Examples are falling or flying objects , fire , theft , vandalism , glass breakage .
Comprehensive auto insurance is necessary , otherwise it wouldnt exist . The price reflects the actual costs incurred by the insurance company to provide the coverage . Comprehensive covers your vehicle in the event of damage from something other than a collision . The key issue is the value of the automobile in relationship to the premium . Older vehicles decline in value to the point where carrying comprehensive insurance doesnt make sense and some insurance companies will actually discontinue comprehensive on older vehicles .
Comprehensive is a coverage of your insurance . Comprehensive means other then collision . So in other words if your auto is damaged from a non collision event and you carry comprehensive coverage on your auto policy you would be covered for the damage minus your deductible . Such claims include , theft , vandalism , glass breakage , falling objects to name a few . The key is to remember other then collision . If you hit something or if something or someone hits you this is collision .
I am not a representative of State Farm as I am an independent agent . However , with that being said , State Farm can OFFER the ability to cover hail damage . Every insurance company that can protect your personal auto is able to provide coverage for hail damage . You are looking for a coverage called Other-than-collision -LRB- OTC -RRB- or sometimes called comprehensive coverage . This coverage is often called all-risk -LRB- a misnomer -RRB- or open-peril coverage . What the heck does that mean ? It means that comprehensive covers EVERYTHING to your auto UNLESS it says it will not cover it . This is actually very robust as a coverage because its impossible to list everything that can happen to a car for exclusions , so you can have coverage for the random things that happen to your car . If you look at your policy for OTC , nowhere does it mention that it will exclude -LRB- not cover -RRB- hail damage . This is good ; it means you can file a claim for OTC to repair hail damage to your auto . Here are a few things to understand about OTC with regards to hail damage : You have to pay your deductible for the repairs . Most often , this means that the insurance company will pay you all the money to get the car fixed EXCEPT for your deductible , which you then pay to the repair company that fixed you car . So if $ 3,000 worth of repairs was needed to fix your car from hail damage , and you have a $ 500 deductible , then the insurance company will give you $ 2500 -LRB- $ 3,000 - $ 500 deductible -RRB- so you can pay your $ 3,000 repair bill . The claim settlement might happen in another way , but the logic is still the same . Your OTC will pay the actual cash value of the car if the repairs are over a certain threshold -LRB- which is determined individually for each car -RRB- to make the car usable again . The company can literally scrap the car and pay you for it instead of repairing the hail damage . Keep this in mind for when determining if you want to file a claim as some cars arent worth much but could be in EXCELLENT condition for driving . You dont want to lose your car because you filed a claim for cosmetic damage , or keep the car and get a salvage title . Talk to your agent to make sure you have OTC . Make sure that the deductible is an amount you can afford to pay in a reasonable amount of time . Its no good to have a $ 500 , $ 1000 , or $ 2,000 deductible for OTC if you can not get the money or put yourself in a poor financial position for 30 + days because of it . Sometimes paying the extra $ 5-10 per month for a lower deductible makes sense in households strapped for cash .
end question
start question
life-insurance
Can A 70 Year Old Get Term Life Insurance ?
Yes , you can purchase term life insurance if you have good health . There are a few carriers that offer term life at fairly reasonable prices . I personally just delivered a term life insurance policy on a healthy 74 year old that needed better rates than a whole life policy would have cost .
That is a great question ! I 'm a little puzzled as to why you would want one though , unless it 's because you 've looked into a whole life policy , and found them to be too expensive . There are a couple of companies that advertise a lot on tv that will issue you a policy , but it also will be very expensive , and will end when you turn 80 . If you live to be 80 and a day , you 've thrown away 10 years worth of money . It is really impossible to give you good guidance without knowing more about your situation . If you 'd like some help , please drop me a line , and I 'll see what we can do . Thanks for helping !
Yes you can but it will be expensive , even if you are in perfect health , you looking at 100 plumes a month and there might be restrictions . You can also get a final expense policy witch will cover all of your funeral needs and not leave that expense to your family .
A quick look in my manual shows that about the only new contract available to a person over 70 years old with my company is a single premium whole life . Term insurance is not issued after age 70 . The single premium whole life might be an interesting concept to consider as it allows you to make a single deposit now and take care of bequests or debts or final expenses when you pass .
There are far fewer companies that will offer term life insurance to a 70 year old person than to a 40 year old , but they do exist . Most often , at that age the policy is a universal life policy that is guaranteed not to lapse for x number of years at a guaranteed level premium . The rates are as low as term rates , and you have the option of dumping in more money to keep the policy in effect longer , which is an option you do not get with term insurance .
The short answer is `` yes '' , however at this age you may find it a much better alternative to purchase a permanent policy . First , someone 70 will generally have an objective of having coverage last for a lifetime instead of a period of time . Unless the 70 year old has borrowed money or some other situation that requires term , its probably a bad idea .
A million dollar policy for a 70 year old preferred non-smoker will be around $ 9785 10 year term , $ 14510 15 year term , $ 21600 for 20 year term , $ 23828 Guaranteed UL . A million dollar policy for a 70 year old standard non-smoker will be around $ 12825 10 year term , $ 22110 15 year term , $ 25930 for 20 year term , $ 32840 Guaranteed UL .
Knowing what life insurance term you should get is something you can best discern for yourself , when you understand how term life insurance is priced . When you purchase a term life insurance policy , you are usually locking in the premium so that it will not go up for a certain number of years . This can be as short as one year or as long as 30 + years . When you choose a longer term , you will find the price is much higher than the premium for a shorter term . That is because the policy is covering a greater risk as you get older . E.g. . If you are age 40 now and take out a 10 year term policy , that policy is only covering you to age 50 . If you take out a 30 year term policy , it is covering you to age 70 . The chance of your dying at age 70 is much greater than at age 50 . And life insurance costs are higher where there is greater risk of death . Term policies roughly average out the cost of insurance for each year you have the policy , and charge you that same price for the entire term . So in the first years of the policy , you are paying more than a person your age would be paying for that risk . In the latter years , you are paying less than a person that age would normally be paying . The advantage to longer terms really shows up when health is taken into account . You may have no trouble getting a preferred rating at age 40 . But to get rated preferred at age 50 or 60 is not as likely . Therefore , having a preferred rating locked in for 30 years offers a huge price advantage to the poor soul who gets rated preferred for a 10 year term policy at age 40 , standard at age 50 , and table 4 at age 60 . Getting longer terms is not for everyone . If you definitely only have a short term need , there is no reason to pay the higher cost of a longer term policy . But IF there is a chance you may need longer coverage , as you can see , locking it in while you are healthy is never a bad idea .
The reason that life insurance premiums go up with age is because mortality rates go up the longer someone lives . When someone buys a 10 year term life insurance policy at age 20 , the rates will not be much higher than at age 30 , because the death rate for 30-40 year old persons does not vary much . However , the rates for a 10 year term policy will be much higher for a 60 year old person than a 50 year old person , because mortality rates go up a lot between ages 60-70 , especially for men .
First understand there are two basic types of disability insurance . The first is a short term disability plan . These benefits are usually a fixed amount not to exceed 70 % of your current income and can start paying almost immediately . These short term plans can pay daily , weekly or monthly but for a shorter period of time usually a few months to up to one year . The second type of disability is long term disability plans . These benefits have a longer elimination period usually 30-60-90-180-360 days before benefits commence but will pay for years or up to age 67 years old . Most long term plans will pay up to 70 % of your current income at time of claim .
There are far fewer companies that will offer term life insurance to a 70 year old person than to a 40 year old , but they do exist . Most often , at that age the policy is a universal life policy that is guaranteed not to lapse for x number of years at a guaranteed level premium . The rates are as low as term rates , and you have the option of dumping in more money to keep the policy in effect longer , which is an option you do not get with term insurance .
Another part to this answer is that not all life insurance policies ever pay a death claim . Most life insurance is not designed to be in force when you die unless you die younger than average . Term Life Insurance only pays a death claim if you die while it is in force . That 's usually 20-years when you are in your 30 's and 40 's and often up into your low 60 's . But most people do n't die that young . Other insurance is tied to your employer and only covers you during your working years . Most people do n't die during your working years . So the insurance company gets to keep all those premiums . Whole-life insurance is priced much higher than the others because it will pay a death claim 100 % of the time unless you cancel the policy . All insurance is priced based on the likelyhood of it ever paying a death claim . That 's why a healthy 35 year old man can buy a million-dollar 20-year term policy cheaper than a 70-year old would pay for a $ 10,000 whole-life policy . One is very unlikely to ever cost the insurance company anything . The other will certainly be paying a death claim within the next couple decades if not sooner .
According to LIMRA , Life Insurance Marketing and Research Association , the nations leading expert on life insurance sales , the average person has a face amount of $ 165,000 in life insurance . Other interesting statistics on the subject find that 70 % of American households admit they would have financial difficulties if the primary wage earner were to die . So , 7 out of 10 people admit they do n't have enough life insurance in force . Out of this 70 % , 30 % of Americans have no life insurance at all , even though we are all guaranteed to die someday . Life insurance is just too important and affordable not to have enough for those loved ones left behind to pick up the pieces . For example , a young healthy 25 year old female can purchase $ 500,000 in term life insurance for as low as $ 12.62 per month . It is the most affordable insurance product on the market and yet one of the most under purchased for the level needed .
Great question . I ca n't really give a number to say is the average cost of a Medicare Supplement Plan F because the price of a policy depends on several factors - your age , your gender , your zip code , and whether you use tobacco products . Each carrier also charges a different rate even though the coverage is exactly the same for Medicare Supplement Plan F -LRB- Medicare Supplement plans are standardized -RRB- . Typically you can figure the price range to be somewhere around $ 120 - $ 150 per month for the lowest cost option in a given zip code if you 're a male in your 60 's - a female in her 60 's may be in the range of $ 80 - $ 120 per month . Someone in their 70s or 80s is probably going to be in the neighborhood of $ 200 + per month . An example regarding the zip code aspect , a 65 year old male in the Washington DC area -LRB- let 's assume zip code 20016 -RRB- would be $ 127 per month with United Healthcare - a 65 year old male in Houston , Texas -LRB- let 's assume zip code 77071 -RRB- would be $ 149 per month with United Healthcare . An example regarding my note about the carriers charging different rates for the same exact Medicare Supplement plan -LRB- using the 20016 zip code again -RRB- - United Healthcare charges $ 127 per month for a 65 year old male whereas Mutual of Omaha charges $ 194 per month for the exact same plan for the 65 year old male -LRB- no differences between the two carriers ' Medicare Supplement plan benefits -RRB- . Some areas United Healthcare may be cheaper than Mutual of Omaha in and vice versa in other areas as well as other insurance companies . There are multiple options to choose from and you ideally want to secure the coverage with the lowest possible cost . Why pay more with one company than another for the same exact policy and benefits ? To determine what the costs are you 're looking at for yourself specifically , I would need to know your age , gender , zip code , and whether you use any tobacco products - I would then be able to generate the quotes for you accordingly . I would also consider looking at the rates for a Medicare Supplement plan G. It 's exactly the same plan as plan F , but does n't cover the Medicare Part B deductible which is only $ 147 in 2015 . So if the difference in premiums is $ 20 - $ 30 + per month , plan G can offer you substantial savings . Think `` how much extra are you spending to protect against a risk of $ 147 ? '' If the difference in premiums is $ 30 per month between the lowest cost option for plan F and the lowest cost option for plan G , that would mean you would be spending $ 360 per year to protect against a risk of $ 147 . In that example , plan G would be more cost advantageous to you . I hope the information is helpful - please feel free to give me a call or send me an e-mail by clicking on the contact me button to discuss your coverage options in further detail and to go over any other questions you may have . Thanks very much .
A quick look in my manual shows that about the only new contract available to a person over 70 years old with my company is a single premium whole life . Term insurance is not issued after age 70 . The single premium whole life might be an interesting concept to consider as it allows you to make a single deposit now and take care of bequests or debts or final expenses when you pass .
The best Term Life Insurance is a policy that will cover your need for it . E.g. . If you have a business loan that you will pay off over the next 10 years , 10 year Term Life Insurance may be your best choice . However , if you do n't have a set need , getting a policy that will last until the date that the policy can last be converted can be a good choice . E.g. Let 's say you are 40 and the policy is convertible to the end of the term or age 70 , whichever comes first . If you get a 30 year term policy , you will have inexpensive coverage for the next 30 years . Perhaps you no longer need life insurance at age 70 , so you can just drop your coverage when the term ends . On the other hand , you may develop a serious illness and not want to lose your policy . Converting your current term policy to a permanent one can be a wonderful option to have in this situation .
The short answer is `` yes '' , however at this age you may find it a much better alternative to purchase a permanent policy . First , someone 70 will generally have an objective of having coverage last for a lifetime instead of a period of time . Unless the 70 year old has borrowed money or some other situation that requires term , its probably a bad idea .
The mortality revolution has been moving the conventional lines of age limitations on many products , services and even retirement start dates to age 70 . There are life insurance companies that issue to age 90 . But a 90 year old will more than likely have health conditions to consider and youll need to justify the coverage and the competency of the 90 year old insured will be scrutinized by the life insurance company .
The Roth IRA is designed to supplement retirement income . Since retirement can extend 20 to 30 years past retirement additional income is often needed . Many experts say youll need 70 to 100 per cent of your pre-retirement income in retirement . Inflation will erode the buying power of your retirement income and must be considered . Pension plans may not replace the amount of pre-retirement income necessary . The taxation on pension benefits and traditional IRA accounts can also erode the buying power of these qualified pension plans . A Roth IRA is made with after-tax money . There arent any age limits on participation and they can be paid in addition to contributions made to your employer-sponsored plan . Contributions can be made on behalf of a non-working spouse . Regular adjusted gross income limits apply . The Roth IRA premium is coordinated with traditional IRA premiums and is reduced at higher adjusted gross income levels . Currently the maximum contribution possible to a Roth IRA is $ 5.500 when you are under age 50 and $ 6,500 per year when you are 50 years old and older . When a Roth IRA is more than five years old it can be used for retirement , tax-free . After five years the Roth IRA can be passed to heirs tax-free . You can use the money in a Roth IRA at any time for qualified education expenses without the normal 10 % early distribution penalty tax . You can withdraw up to the total of your payments without income tax or the additional 10 percent penalty tax . With a Roth IRA you have access to your earnings . You can withdraw earnings income tax free and without the additional 10 penalty tax if you have had the Roth IRA for at least five years and are over 59.5 years , disabled or are using the money for a first-time home purchase . It pays to start your Roth IRA as early as possible and fund it as fully as possible . Because all gain in the Roth IRA is not currently taxed there is a significant compounded rate of return . This will help develop your financial well-being . One of the key considerations is taxation . With a Roth IRA contributions are made with after-tax dollars . The money received in retirement is paid in tax free dollars . If you are currently in a very high tax bracket , the Roth IRA might not be the best choice , however , if you are in a fairly low tax bracket you will find that receiving the money tax free in retirement makes good sense . Most retirement programs are subject to mandatory distributions that start at age seventy and a half . These force you take money out of a plan and pay current income tax . A Roth IRA is not subject to a mandatory distribution and that inconvenience and expense is not required . In the final analysis , tax-free money is great . By carefully planning expenditures you can use the tax-free money to keep you in a lower tax bracket in retirement and potentially save a great deal of money . The money in your other pension plans is actually jointly held by you and the government . With the Roth IRA , it is all yours .
Disability insurance is an insurance policy that replaces up to 70 % of your income should you become injured or ill and can no longer preform your normal duties of your current occupation . There are two basic types of disability insurance . The first is called short term disability which pays after a short elimination period to cover immediate living expenses . Most short term policies expire within two years . The second type of disability insurance is long term . These policies cover income for a longer period of time from two years to age 67 years old .
end question
start question
life-insurance
Can BMI Affect Life Insurance ?
Body Mass Index -LRB- BMI -RRB- does impact the premium for life insurance . BMI or simply the height and weight of the proposed life insured is a key factor in preferred risk guidelines . Favorable height and weight combinations can mean preferred rates . Average combinations will mean standard rates as a starting point for underwriting . Unfavorable combinations may mean substandard rates at best . Height and weight charts can vary significantly by life insurer . An independent life insurance professional can survey a wide variety of insurers to help you select the best ones to apply with for the best possible outcome .
Although Body Mass Index -LRB- BMI -RRB- is not one of the primary underwriting factors , it is directly connected to the Height and Weight parameters which are always primary items that are asked on an application for health insurance . An applicant that has a higher than normal BMI would be assumed to be overweight ; whereas an applicant with a lower than normal BMI would be assumed to be under nourished . Both of these situations would be deemed as a greater than normal risk to carrier ; should this condition exist , the applicant may be better off with an non-underwritten -LRB- guaranteed issue -RRB- life insurance policy . For a health insurance quote and/or application , you may follow the link : WEBSITELINK
BMI -LRB- Body Mass Index -RRB- numbers between 18 and 50 are the outer minimum and maximum parameters of what most life insurance companies will cover with a medically underwritten policy . If a person is extremely underweight or malnourished -LRB- BMI under 18.5 -RRB- or morbidly obese -LRB- BMI over 40 -RRB- , there are simplified issue policies for nearly every BMI , depending on one 's age and state of residence . For those with normal BMI , life insurance rates will be in the Preferred range as long as everything else is Preferred . For those who are overweight , the BMI will be part of the determination in what rating to give , along with other health factors .
If applying for No Exam life insurance , BMI is not taken into consideration for approval . And when one 's weight is within the normal weight range , BMI will not affect ones ' rating for medically underwritten life insurance , either . It is when someone is overweight that the BMI is looked at in medically underwritten life insurance , to determine whether to give a better or worse rating than one might get based on weight alone .
BMI -LRB- Body Mass Index -RRB- numbers between 18 and 50 are the outer minimum and maximum parameters of what most life insurance companies will cover with a medically underwritten policy . If a person is extremely underweight or malnourished -LRB- BMI under 18.5 -RRB- or morbidly obese -LRB- BMI over 40 -RRB- , there are simplified issue policies for nearly every BMI , depending on one 's age and state of residence . For those with normal BMI , life insurance rates will be in the Preferred range as long as everything else is Preferred . For those who are overweight , the BMI will be part of the determination in what rating to give , along with other health factors .
Although Body Mass Index -LRB- BMI -RRB- is not one of the primary underwriting factors , it is directly connected to the Height and Weight parameters which are always primary items that are asked on an application for health insurance . An applicant that has a higher than normal BMI would be assumed to be overweight ; whereas an applicant with a lower than normal BMI would be assumed to be under nourished . Both of these situations would be deemed as a greater than normal risk to carrier ; should this condition exist , the applicant may be better off with an non-underwritten -LRB- guaranteed issue -RRB- life insurance policy . For a health insurance quote and/or application , you may follow the link : WEBSITELINK
Body Mass Index -LRB- BMI -RRB- does impact the premium for life insurance . BMI or simply the height and weight of the proposed life insured is a key factor in preferred risk guidelines . Favorable height and weight combinations can mean preferred rates . Average combinations will mean standard rates as a starting point for underwriting . Unfavorable combinations may mean substandard rates at best . Height and weight charts can vary significantly by life insurer . An independent life insurance professional can survey a wide variety of insurers to help you select the best ones to apply with for the best possible outcome .
Yes , life insurance does usually consider a person 's BMI , or Body Mass Index , when assigning a rating to the policy . A weight to height ratio that indicates that the applicant is overweight , obese , or morbidly obese will hike the rate up a little or could cause a decline . There are some policies that do not consider BMI . Contact a specialist in life insurance for persons who are of larger builds to find your best quote .
Yes , it does . There are companies that will not accept business from people with a high Body Mass Index . Once a person gets above 35 in BMI the number of companies available to purchase from starts to drop . Above 40 BMI and most wo n't quote . Insurance is using statistics and the laws of probability to determine if a policy or a rate is offered . It is a very impersonal method applied to a very personal product .
Your weight -LRB- more specifically , your BMI -RRB- has a major impact on the rate you pay for your life insurance . Regardless whether you are purchasing term or permanent coverage , almost all carriers consider height and weight in the underwriting process . A `` preferred '' rating on a policy will require a specific range of BMI to qualify . A `` standard '' rating will expand that range but the rate will be higher . `` Rated '' classifications are the most expensive and will be used for persons that are extremely overweight or have other specific conditions . An experienced broker can determine which insurers are likely to offer you the best rates based on your current weight and other applicable conditions -LRB- if there are any -RRB- .
Can you be denied life insurance due to weight ? Absolutely . There are many companies who will not offer life insurance to people who have high BMI scores . Extra weight carries extra health risks that may not show for years , but then suddenly appear . Life insurance is math . It is statistics , which can be cold and cruel . Life insurance is a personal product that comes about in a very impersonal way .
Yes , you can get life insurance if you 're overweight , but there are different types of policies you can apply for . Fully underwritten plans will take your body mass index -LRB- BMI -RRB- into account and may cause your rate to increase or possibly decline your application . A popular route for overweight applicants are non-medical or rapid issue life insurance plans that have lenient height and weight guidelines .
Can you get life insurance if you are overweight ? Yes . you can . However depending on your build the cost could be considrable . Most insurance policies stop with a standard rating around a bmi of 35 . Above 35 you have companies applying table rates depending on build and other health issues . Table rates are a higher cost than standard . There are guaranteed issue graded benefit plans a person could try too . Those plans also are n't inepensive .
Most people can get life insurance when they are overweight . If your weight falls in the morbidly obese category , and if you are under age 45 , it is harder to find coverage than when you are older , but there are a few options . Those whose BMI -LRB- body mass index -RRB- is in the obese range will have more choices . Contrary to what generally applies to those with normal weight , sometimes a No Exam policy can be the least expensive choice for obese individuals . Not having to take an exam can also be helpful if the overweight person has not seen a doctor in a while , as it takes away the risk of the blood test showing high blood sugar , high cholesterol , or other labs sometimes associated with excess weight . No matter which route you go , consulting an agency that carries a variety of products can be helpful , so that you can be matched up with the one that has your best price . Do n't neglect to inform your agent of any weight lost in the past year , as most companies will add back half of that to your current weight , when determining your rate class .
The cost of Critical Care Insurance varies according to the age of the applicant , whether or not they use tobacco , their BMI , if they have a family history of certain illnesses , and whether they themselves have any health conditions . Therefore , what is the cheapest Critical Illness Insurance in Michigan for one person , may not be the cheapest for another . To find the cheapest quote for you , go to a website that offers Critical Illness Insurance in Michigan and call or visit them .
Yes , bariatric surgery can be covered by Medicare under some conditions . Some of the conditions are that the patient 's BMI -LRB- Body Mass Index -RRB- must over 35 , they have obtained a psychological evaluation and ascertained in several ways that weight loss surgery is the best option , and have a health condition connected to being overweight that will be helped by having bariatric surgery .
Medicare can cover gastric bypass surgery under certain conditions . Some of those are : 1 -RRB- BMI must be 35 or greater . 2 -RRB- There must be at least one health condition related to weight . 3 -RRB- There must be documentation of failure to lose weight by other methods . 4 -RRB- A psychological evaluation is required . 5 -RRB- Other medical treatments for weight loss have been ruled out . 6 -RRB- The provider and type of surgery must be approved by Medicare .
Medicare will pay for weight loss surgery if the BMI is over 35 , if there is a health condition related to obesity that will be cured or alleviated by losing weight through the weight loss surgery , if weight loss must occur before treatment can be effectively undertaken for another health problem , and if other treatments are not expected to work to produce sufficient weight loss . There is a psychological evaluation done prior to surgery to make sure it should be done .
Yes , Medicare will pay for a duodenal switch if there is evidence that the weight loss surgery is medically necessary . Among other things , the patient 's BMI must be 35 or more and there must be a health condition that will be alleviated or cured by losing a lot of weight .
Medicare will pay for laparoscopic adjustable gastric band if the following three conditions are met : 1 -RRB- You must have a BMI of 35 or over at the time of surgery ; 2 -RRB- You must have a qualifying health condition associated with your being overweight that losing weight through gastric banding would help ; and 3 -RRB- You must complete a 6 month Physician Supervised Weight Loss Program proximate to the time of the surgery .
end question
start question
home-insurance
Does Home Insurance Cover Foundation Problems ?
A homeowners policy pays for damages cause by named perils . The perils most likely to affect a foundation would be earth movement or flood . The most common homeowners policy excludes coverage for those perils . You can get policies to cover each of those circumstances . If , however , the foundation was damaged as the result of a named peril , such as fire , the damages would be covered under the Homeowners policy .
Most homeowners policies wo n't cover problems with your foundation unless something sudden and accidental has happened to it . It 's designed to cover damage , not deterioration . It 's pretty rare for something to happen that damages a foundation . Most property claims are caused by storms or fire , and neither of these will usually damage foundation . If the foundation is sagging , leaking , crumbling , or deteriorating in some way , it 's the homeowner 's responsibility to maintain it . If you live in a newer home that has serious foundation problems , you may have recourse against the builder . Foundation problems can cause significant damage to your home and personal property . Your insurance company is n't going to repair or replace property damaged by a leaky or crumbling foundation .
Most homeowners policies wo n't cover problems with your foundation unless something sudden and accidental has happened to it . It 's designed to cover damage , not deterioration . It 's pretty rare for something to happen that damages a foundation . Most property claims are caused by storms or fire , and neither of these will usually damage foundation . If the foundation is sagging , leaking , crumbling , or deteriorating in some way , it 's the homeowner 's responsibility to maintain it . If you live in a newer home that has serious foundation problems , you may have recourse against the builder . Foundation problems can cause significant damage to your home and personal property . Your insurance company is n't going to repair or replace property damaged by a leaky or crumbling foundation .
If your foundation is damaged by a covered peril , then it would be taken care of by the home insurance -LRB- so if a house fire causes damage to your foundation you would be fine -RRB- since the foundation is part of the house . However , home insurance policies exclude damage by flood and hydrostatic pressure , so if your `` foundation problems '' are due to the pressure of water , or shifting ground there would not be coverage . If the concrete is simply no good , that is also excluded since it is caused by a slow degradation , not a sudden and accidental occurence . It 's hard to answer your question without more info . Send me a message and we can address it specifically .
Mobile Home Insurance is the same concept as homeowner 's insurance for site-built homes ; however , the coverage is usually only provided by specialty companies for various reasons , which I will discuss infra . Mobile Home Insurance typically mirrors a homeowner 's policy in the fact that it has coverage for the dwelling , other structures , personal property , loss of use , personal/premises liability , and all the optional coverages such as identity theft , personal injury , etc. . Mobile Home insurance is usually only provided by specialty companies such as Foremost , American Modern , American Reliable , Aegis , etc. . Mobile homes present a unique loss exposure . Site-built homes are usually constructed much better than mobiles/manufactured homes , and site-built homes have a variety of fire-resistant materials used in them . Mobile homes , on the other hand , typically dry up fairly quickly ; and it is not unusual to see a small fire cause a total loss in a mobile over 15 years old , as the mobile has then become a tinderbox . Mobiles also can vary on the foundation , depending on local building codes . For instance , in California , mobiles are not subject to state building codes . So each county assessor 's office determines what qualifies as a `` permanent foundation . '' One county requires a full concrete perimeter foundation with earthquake retroffiting -LRB- i.e. bolting -RRB- , whereas another county will allow the homeowner to lay down a strip of gravel , stack some cinderblocks , and set the mobile on it . This inconsistency makes profitable underwriting somewhat challenging . It can be tricky purchasing mobile home insurance as many agents try to sell a depreciated value policy . Mobile homes are the one coverage that do not use `` replacement cost '' as determined by contractor labor plus materials to repair or replace . Replacement cost policies for mobile homes are based on the purchase price for a brand new mobile of like kind and quality plus transportation and installation . After 10 years of age or so , many mobile homeowners claim they would not want a new mobile anyway , they would go purchase a used one ; therefore , they do not buy replacement cost , they only buy depreciated value . While this can be a significant savings on your annual premium , the likelihood of a total loss is much higher in a mobile than in a site-built home ; and the danger is that you would only get paid $ 5,000 - $ 10,000 . Good luck purchasing one and transporting/installing it onto your property for that amount .
Foundation work may not be covered by your homeowner 's insurance , depending on the specific cause and nature of the claim . For example , wear and tear -LRB- and depreciation -RRB- is simply not covered . This would apply to appliances , other personal property , your roof and basically all parts to the home . Your agent can help determine the specifics of your foundation problem and whether it is covered .
Homeowners Insurance does not cover earthquakes . This type of risk is specifically excluded . A homeowner would be required to purchase an additional earthquake policy to cover this type of risk . Depending on where you live the rates can be low to very high -LRB- and what is high -RRB- if you live in a high risk earthquake zone . The average deductible is 15 % of coverage so no small chunk of change . I am in California which is earthquake territory and believe all homeowners should carry earthquake coverage who are in high hazard zones . Average replacement for a home can range from 350k-1 million and so can your loan amount . While your deductible may be 80k -LRB- just an average -RRB- this is far less then the potential of a total loss which can run 500k . Keep in mind , your home does not have to fall to the ground . If the home even shifts of the foundation the chances are your looking at a total loss . In California all Insurance carriers are required by law to offer you earthquake coverage when you purchase a homeowners insurance policy and make the offer available again at renewal at least every two years afterward . A homeowner then has the option to accept or reject coverage . I often get allot of phone calls right after a shaker . The problem is in many cases moratoriums go up and earthquake coverage is not available for a couple of weeks so if your thinking about getting earthquake insurance , do n't think about it . Purchase the coverage and sleep better at night . And I recommend an automatic earthquake gas shut off valve be installed on your gas meter to help prevent gas leaking into your home and a sudden explosion .
Great Question . Typically home insurance does not cover foundation repair . That type of work is not cover by insurance policy . You may want to check with the person who built your house and see what is the propor way to fix that problem . Also make sure you consult with a licensed contractor as well .
Although property coverage under the homeowners form is extremely broad there are special limits to losses of certain types of property and losses under certain conditions . This is particularly true when the property is unusual . There is a special limit of coverage on sports memorabilia and collectors cards . The company will reduce the amount it will pay on this type of loss to a specified amount , usually $ 2500 . One of the problems is establishing the value of these types of items . Another problem is that the items are susceptible to theft and so coverage is routinely denied if the sports memorabilia is in transit or shipped by regular mail . That restriction is waived if they are shipped by registered mail . The company will probably not cover the loss of sports memorabilia if it is located in an unattended vehicle . Finally they will usually limit the loss of a single item . Although a homeowners policy usually provides replacement coverage for the structure of the home it is frequently subject to a special limit for the roof . This special limit affects the homeowners recovery at the time of loss to the actual cash value of the roof if it is more than a given age such as ten years . Water damage is often understood to be flood damage but there are types of water damage that can occur inside the home that are also excluded or have special limits . The first point to make is that a homeowner might think that wind-blown water is covered because wind damage is covered . This is specifically excluded in most policies . Also excluded is water or sewage which backs up through sewers or drains . Another water exclusion is water which comes from below the surface of the ground and this damage is often seen in sidewalks , driveways , foundations and swimming pools . A final point is that other materials that are carried along by water are also excluded . There are special limits that govern recovery of water damage losses if the homeowner doesnt take prompt steps to stop the damage , or waits a long time to initiate repairs . Many companies have special limit that affect certain breeds of animals . These limits apply to personal injury particularly . Specified breeds that are frequently excluded are pit bulls , Doberman pinschers , and Rottweilers . However , if the homeowner has an animal with a history of biting , losses arising from the actions of that animal can also be excluded . Regardless of breed many insurers have a special limit on the losses that they will pay for personal injury , frequently $ 25,000 per occurrence . Under some circumstances the insurance companies will allow you to purchase coverage for the items that have been excluded . A good example is the water damage caused by water from outside the plumbing system which backs up through sewers or drains . There is rarely covered if the damage is the result of negligence . My father-in-law removed a toilet . The subsequent flooding was not covered . The most frequently purchased special limit coverage is jewelry coverage . This is a complicated subject but it allows coverage for items that are more valuable than the basic homeowners policy will cover . The same sort of coverage is available for weapons , furs and other high value items which are subject to special limits .
Yes , if the damage is due to a covered loss . Typically this will only come into play when rebuilding the home as the foundation may need to be replaced along with the home -LRB- normally when your reconstruction cost is calculated it also includes whether or not you have a basement -RRB- or if your home has an exposed foundation . I encourage you to read your policy completely to understand what is covered and what the exclusions are or contact your local agent to have them go over your policy coverage and exclusions .
A homeowners policy covers damages caused by specified perils . These perils are described in the policy and while comprehensive there are some perils that are excluded . If the cause of the foundation problem was damage by a specified peril it would be covered , however it more likely that the damage would be cause by earth movement which is an excluded peril .
The section of the policy that will likely answer the question the best will be found in the `` Exclusions '' . In the ISO Homeowner Form 3 -LRB- HO3 -RRB- policy , emulated by most insurers if not used directly , and the most common form of homeowner insurance issued in the USA , is the form I take this information from . It says : Collapse , Settling , subsidence , earth movement -LRB- unless endorsed otherwise -RRB- , landslide , mudslide , mudflow , sinkhole , or any other impact of the earth sinking , rising or shifting that impact the foundation structure , walls , footings or floor are specifically excluded . An exception is made for the impact of losses caused by fire but only to the extent caused by the fire . In other words , if a fire ensues and the building eventually collapses , it is covered to the extent the damage was caused due to the damage of fire . There are certainly regional exceptions . In Ohio , due to past mining activity , subsidence has to be offered in various counties -LRB- but does not need to be purchased -RRB- . Florida has a problem with sinkholes and may have state mandated coverage changes . California has issues with earthquake and almost certainly requires at least the offer of earthquake insurance . Check with your local insurance representative for the advice that fits your particular locality .
Your homeowners policy covers damage caused by a specified peril . Damage to a foundation would most likely be the result of earth movement or the entry of outside water -LRB- flooding . -RRB- Both of those perils are excluded in most homeowners policies . Maintenance of the home is also an excluded peril . It is , however , possible that one of the insured perils could damage the foundation and coverage would be available .
Although the foundation is not a part of the computation upon which the replacement value of the home is established , it might be covered if there is direct physical loss by one of the named perils -LRB- in the all-risk policy it would be any peril other than those excluded . -RRB- It is very difficult to think of a circumstance where coverage would apply . The mere presence of a cracked foundation is insufficient .
Your homeowners insurance policy covers damages that are caused by specific perils . While it is possible that damage to a foundation could be caused by fire or another of the covered perils , I doubt that is the point of this question . Most foundation difficulties arise from earth movement and that is an excluded peril in most policies . The issue is damage from a specified peril is what is covered .
Sometimes cheapest is not always better . Remember , you get what you pay for . If you go to a website that only provides you with a few cheap quotes you may not be getting the best products available . Sometimes those sites are not kept current with changing products . What if you have questions or issues with the application or the insurance policy itself ? In a lot of cases it is difficult to get in contact with a licensed agent to get those questions answered or the problems corrected . Generally speaking , it is the service work a particular agent provides the customer that makes the difference in these instances . Furthermore , your agent will be able to help you customize your insurance to meet your specific needs and budget . Your agent should be able to get a good foundation product for you . Then , you can add to it as your finances improve . Plus , your agent will be able to assist you with future decisions about your insurance portfolio as you reach other milestones in you life . A relationship with your insurance agent should be a life-long relationship that way he or she will be able to help with items after the initial purchase of the policy such as : possible loans , riders , and claims .
Unless the issue is caused by a covered peril your homeowners insurance would not pay for any of the repairs to correct the foundation issues . A foundation issue is typically considered a maintainance issue . Please read your policy completely to know what is covered and what exclusions there may be or contact your local agent to have them go over the policy with you .
Only if it is something that is sudden and accidental which is the key to all insurance claims . Depending on how it occurred and what made it happen is the criteria used for settling claims . As the others have mentioned , a crack in a wall / foundation etc are maintenance issues meaning over the course of owning a home you should keep the property well kept when something happens . Examples are a roof that is wearing out and needs replaced , the foundation with cracking or bowing , etc. .
A homeowners policy pays for damages cause by named perils . The perils most likely to affect a foundation would be earth movement or flood . The most common homeowners policy excludes coverage for those perils . You can get policies to cover each of those circumstances . If , however , the foundation was damaged as the result of a named peril , such as fire , the damages would be covered under the Homeowners policy .
A homeowners policy covers damage caused by a named peril . If the cracks in the foundation are the result of a specified peril , fire , wind , hail etc. the loss would be covered . There are perils that are not included such as earth movement . Earth movement would be the most likely cause of a crack in the foundation . Please consult with your agent prior to filing a claim .
end question
start question
auto-insurance
Can Car Insurance Be Cancelled ?
Yes , It can be cancelled by the insured or the carrier can cancell or non-renew your policy for various reasons . Auto insurance is an at will product for the insured , which means that the insured could cancell the policy at any time that they wish . Please make certain that you secure coverage with another carrier before cancelling coverage with your current carrier to protect yourself properly .
You can cancel at anytime . it is not the best idea to go with out insurance . If you are canceling because the car is not running or you no longer own the car and are looking for a replacement that is different . If your car is no longer working you can place just comprehensive coverage on it and no liability while it is disabled that way it has some protection on your car . But on the flip side . If you no longer own a car you can keep the insurance till you get a replacement car and be covered if you are borrowing someone 's car and they did n't pay their insurance . Also there is the option of non owned policy . Also when you start your insurance up again if you have gone more then 30 days with no coverage your rates increase for lack of proof of prior . Talk to your agent and see what works best for you . If you are canceling because of your budget talk to your agent and see what they can do to keep you covered and at a better rate .
The short answer is yes . It is important to keep in mind , however , that most States , like Connecticut where we are , require liabilityinsurance as a condition of maintaining registration . Thus , cancelling insurance on a car without cancelling the registration could result in a fine , a suspension of the registration or both . If you are financing a car , the finance company requires both Comprehensive and Collision coverage on that car , and if leasing , not only those but also liability protection and usually at a secific level of coverage . Cancelling insurance in a case such as those could result in your car being reposessed . An insurance company may also cancel a policy . These are usually `` non renewals ' of coverage as a result of the insured no longer meeting underwriting standards . Before you do anything , it is best to check with your Insurance Professional .
If you mean can you cancel or change your car insurance , then the answer is yes , any time you like . Now , keep in mind that in most if not all states , you are required to have and maintain continuous car insurance that at least provides liability coverage in order to register a car . So , can you cancel your car insurance ? Yes , but unless you replace that coverage without any lapse , you may be in danger of being severly fined or at worst , have your car 's registration cancelled .
Yes , you can cancel your auto insurance policy at any time . If you bought the insurance through an agent , you can simply call them and tell them you need to cancel your policy . If you bought the insurance directly from the insurance company , you contact them . There are two considerations . The first has to do with the amount of premium refund you will get if you cancel the policy prior to the expiration date . In most states , if the insured cancels a policy before the expiration date , the return premium is calculated on what is known as a `` short rate '' basis . The short rate calculation may include an extra 10 % to the insurance company to cover the expense of cancelling the policy . The second consideration is whether the auto has a lien against it . If you still owe money on your car , your lender will require that you replace the cancelled insurance right away with a new policy . And you ca n't hide this from the lender because the insurer you cancel with automatically notifies the lender that the insurance has been cancelled .
Most companies will allow you to cancel insurance at any time without penalty . Some charge what is known as a short rate cancellation that might reduce the amount of any unused premium . I assume that you are cancelling the policy because you no longer own the car . If you still own the car I recommend that you purchase comprehensive insurance if the car is less than 10 years old and will not be driven . That will pay for damages that occur to a non-operational vehicle like a tree falling on the car , or windstorm damage .
No . A health insurance company must provide a policyholder with proper advance notice of any policy cancellation . You should receive a written notification from your insurance carrier of their intent to cancel coverage , an explanation for the cancellation and the date that the policy will be terminated . Cancelling an individual or group health insurance policy is not something an insurance carrier can do arbitrarily and could get them in big trouble with the state insurance department and possibly the Federal government . Now , if you engaged in fraud in applying for a health insurance policy the insurance carrier is within their rights to cancel your policy and may even cancel it retroactively to the date of issuance . But they would still have to provide you with notice , an explanation and a chance to appeal the decision . An example that we will probably see more of in the era of ObamaCare where health insurance rates can be significantly different from one side of a state line to another is the situation where a person enrolls for coverage stating that they are a resident of a state like Tennessee -LRB- where more health insurance options exist and rates are lower -RRB- when they are really a resident of Arkansas -LRB- where choices are limited and rates are higher -RRB- . It is also possible that an insurance carrier will cancel an insurance policy product line , withdraw from a marketplace or go out of business , all of which are situations where an insurance carrier cancellation would be initiated by the insurance company . However , they are still required to provide policyholders with timely notice even in these events .
Yes . You can cancel your car insurance at any time . The question that you may want to know before cancelling is whether your insurance company pro-rates or short-rates your cancellation . A pro-rated cancellation is more favorable for you since you are charged only for the days that have been used . In Illinois , the insurance companies by law have to pro-rate an auto cancellation .
Any time that fraud is detected the insurance company can cancel an auto policy . If you stage an accident in order to file a claim , the company will probably cancel your policy . If new information comes to light that would change the nature of your application , that could lead to a cancellation . If you are arrested for transporting moonshine in your car , your auto insurance company will likely cancel your policy as soon as they find out . If you fail to pay the premium your policy can be cancelled .
If in fact you have already purchased new car insurance with another company , then yes , you cartainly can request a cancellation of your previous policy . The old policy should be cancelled effective the date that your new policy went into effect . The request to cancel will be requested in writing for record purposes . YOu can talk to your new insurance professional about that . They will more han likely be able to prepare a standard form for your signature that stipulates the exact cancellation date . This will be signed by you then forwarded to your old carrier for processing . Any refund owed to you will be sent upon the processing of that cancellation .
Gap insurance is a coverage that is offered either on your auto policy or through the auto finance company as an option -LRB- or requirement -RRB- on your loan . Basically , what it does is provide you a clean slate if you total a car with a loan on it . Lets look at an example : Erica buys a 2009 Volkswagon Jetta from a used car shop for $ 14,000 . The used car value could be 12,500 depending on what form you use -LRB- blackbook value , NADA , Kelly Bluebook value , etc. -RRB- The form doesnt matter here other than answering the question of is this car worth less than the loan I have on it ? Erica is required to have other-than-collision coverage -LRB- often called comprehensive coverage , which is a misnomer -RRB- and collision coverage as a stipulation for the loan she is getting with the bank or finance company . That coverage states that it will repair her car for specific reasons in the policy OR pay her the actual cash value of the car if it costs less than the repairs it would take to make the car drivable . Often a state variation will come here saying a car can not be repaired if the expenses are 70 % or more of the value of the car - the insurance company needs to pay the policyholder the actual cash value of the car instead . If you look closely at your auto policy , you also have a coverage to protect yourself from liability caused by you damaging the property of others . This is often referred to as property damage liability or the third number in your limits -LRB- such as 100/300/100 limits -RRB- . It states that it will repair the damage caused by your actions that you are held responsible for OR pay the actual cash value of that item if less than the cost of repairs . This is important , so remember it . So what does this mean for Erica , knowing this information ? Lets say Erica has had her Volkswagon Jetta for 3 years and diligently made payments on her car without missing a payment date . The loan is now $ 9,000 after interest . The value of the car has depreciated down to $ 7600 because of the age , mileage , and usage of the car . Technically , Erica is paying $ 1400 more on the car than what it is worth -LRB- taking interest out of the equation to make it easier . -RRB- Lets say at this 3 year mark , Erica gets into an accident and the car is beyond repair . It doesnt matter if she causes the accident or if someone else was at fault , because both property damage -LRB- what the other party uses to fix Ericas car if they caused the accident -RRB- and collision coverage -LRB- the coverage used to fix Ericas car if she caused the accident -RRB- use actual cash value to determine how much repairs will be made and how much money they will pay Erica . Both coverages will give Erica $ 7600 for her car . However , since Erica has a lien on the car because she is financing it , that money actually goes to the FINANCE COMPANY and Erica wont see a penny of it . The finance company will apply that $ 7600 to her loan , meaning there is a $ 1400 balance left she is responsible for . The bank isnt a charity so they will still tell Erica she has to pay it because it is still in her contract and the bank lost $ 1400 on a car that no longer exists . Erica still has to pay $ 1400 on a car she doesnt even have , and still has to buy a new car . Thats a bad place to be in life , wouldnt you say ? Even worse , Erica might still have to make payments even if the accident wasnt her fault ! She gets all of the blame of the finance company but caused none of the problems ! If Erica had gap insurance , it would kick in at this point and relive Erica of the extra $ 1400 she would be responsible for . If Erica was ahead of her loan and the cash value of the car was more than the loan , she would get any money paid above the loan amount -LRB- thus satisfying her finance company as well -RRB- and the gap insurance would not take effect . Either way , Erica isnt paying money any more on her car that is non-functional . Here are some common stipulations found in gap insurance - check with your loan company to see if they apply to you : Gap insurance is there to pay for the loan on the car and THATS IT ! If you increase the loan to pay for any extras you are typically not going to get that part of the loan covered and will still have to pay . This includes things like the extended warranty , credit life insurance in case you die before the loan is paid off , and things like that . It might even say the gap insurance isnt paid for either and you will have to pay for that . Its definitely worth looking into . Gap insurance also says that it wont take effect if you are behind on your payments on a certain amount , pay more because the car is worth less from overuse or modifications , and wont cover intentional damage to the car . Basically , its not there to handle your loan if you are financially strapped and can not handle the payments anymore and want to get rid of the car . Another option in place of gap insurance is to get the repair/replacement coverage for your auto policy . This says that instead of getting the cash value of a car beyond repair , you get a replacement car instead -LRB- even if it costs more than the value of the car . -RRB- You would still have the loan but youd have a car as well . This coverage might not be available and it often is only available for cars less than 1-5 years old and only if you are the original owner . Talk to your agent to see if you qualify . Gap coverage is an excellent coverage to get , and is worth the investment . Used cars typically drop in value faster than the loan does from payments , and you dont want to be stuck paying on a car you dont even have anymore .
While of the `` unearned '' premium should be returned when you cancel your car insurance , it would be important to know why you are cancelling your car insurance.If there are no other cars in your household and you are not considered an insured on another comparable auto insurance policy , you may wish to consider `` Non-owned Auto '' coverage . This type of policy covers you for liability and physical damage while you are operating a car you do not own -LRB- borrowed , rented , etc. -RRB- and may provide uninsured/underinsured coverage to you when you are a pedestrian or riding in someone else 's vehicle . Not owning a car does not mean you no longer have an auto related exposure .
Absolutely you can . That is your choice . But I recommend that prior to canceling your policy to have a quote lined up with another carrier . Going with a lapse of more then 30 days can make your rates much higher . If you canceling because your not happy with your agent but like the carrier you can also call the carrier and they will get you another agent and you can keep you policy . If you are canceling your policy because you no longer have a car and will be getting one in the near future many cases you can go to what is called a non owned policy that covers you if your are driving a car that you do not own for the liability only portion . Call a local agent and discuss your options this will keep your cost down later in the future
Certainly , but you do not want this situation as most policies contain a ` other insurance ' clause in them and this could create problems you do not need in the event of a loss/claim occurringin the ` overlap ' period . Follow the cancellation procedures outlined in the policy you desire to cancel and have no gap between the cancelled policy and the replacement policy . DO NOT RELY ON A NEW BROKER OR AGENT TO CANCEL YOUR EXISTING POLICY WITHOUT GETTING DOCUMENTATION IN WRITING THEY ARE SENDING APPROPRIATE CANCELLATION DOCUMENTS AND EVIDENCE TO YOUR CURRENT CARRIER . Remember , the contract is between you and your current carrier and only you -LRB- the named insured -RRB- can request cancellation of your policy . Also be aware that ` auto pay ' or ` EFT ' payment modes on an existing policy may not be terminated immediately and your account may be ` swept ' for a premium due within the next 21 to 30 days . Make sure your auto pay or EFT plan is terminated asap -LRB- and get evidence -RRB- when your policy is cancelled .
Can you cancel your term life insurance ? Yes , you can cancel a term policy a couple of ways . First , simply let the insurance company know in writing that you wish to cancel . They will cancel on the date asked for or the date of receipt of the letter if no cancelation date is given . They will refund any premium unused . The second way is to let the premium lapse . Why would you do it this way ? Because it gives you a grace period to really be sure it 's what you want to do . I remember my first day in this business , there was a couple of people in the office crying in loud voices , `` but he did n't mean it '' . They were there trying to reinstate a policy that the owner had just cancelled and died like a week later . There was the letter from the insured , demanding his policy be cancelled on a certain date and it was . Unfortunately , he died a few days after .
A homowners policy can be cancelled prior to the completion of the policy term . All coverage ends on the date of cancellation . The company will cancel a policy if the scheduled premium isnt received . It will cancel if you have by fraud , misrepresentation or by omission of fact caused the company to issue a policy that they would not otherwise have issued . They will cancel the policy if there has been a material change in the property that would increase the likelihood of claim . The company is required by law to allow a certain period of time before cancelling the policy . Unused premium is returned according to policy provisions .
You have significant power to walk away from any insurer . Most states operate with regulations regarding how a cancellation in mid term is treated . Before you leap to canceling your Progressive policy , check with the Insurance department in your state . They will know whether there is a requirement to pro rate the premium or not . Pro rated cancellations are the norm and this is how that works . If you cancel an annual policy for which you paid the whole premium and you cancel at exactly six months , then the company will return to you 50 % of the premium . So , just make sure what the cancellation requirements are in your state .
Probably not . The requirement to have and maintain car insurance as a condition of registering your car for use on public roads and highways is established by state law , regulated and managed by your state 's Department of Motor Vehicles and enforced by local and State police authorities . If you cancel your car insurance and do not replace it , your DMV may levy a fine and or cancel your car 's registration , which then if you were pulled over may add to the violation charges against you .
Homeowners Insurance can be cancelled at any time by the Insured . The Insured may be required to submit a signed request to cancel the policy ; it is important to purchase a new policy and make sure it is effective the same date as the cancellation of your old policy . All policies have a Standard Time of inception and expiration at : 12:01 a.m. . There is an online link available to obtain a quote and purchase Home Insurance directly online in multiple States . The link is : WEBSITELINK If the reason for changing carriers is due to an issue with an inspection which was conducted -LRB- interior or exterior -RRB- on your property , we must advise that all carriers are now inspecting risks which means you will most probably have the same issue with another carrier . On the other hand , an insurance carrier has legal restrictions regarding the cancellation of an insurance policy ; they may only cancel a policy for any underwriting reason during the first 60 days of a new insurance policy . They may cancel a policy at any time for non-payment of premium following the State requirement for legal notice .
The policy documents should have a ` cancellation ' section - usually found in the Policy Conditions . This will give instructions for cancellation . You should be able to mail the originalpolicy with a written request for cancellation -LRB- subsequent to the date of mailing -RRB- and evidence you have either replaced coverage or the plates were surrendered and coverage is no longer required for the registration . Regulations vary state to state and if the state you have the registration in has ` compulsory ' insurance , you will have to obtain the evidence mentioned . Remember , if you surrender plates one day , have the coverage cancelled the next day - auto insurance usually cancels 12:01 am on the day the cancellation is requested . A competent agent or broker should be able to guide you . You c an always contact your carrier for info .
end question
start question
long-term-care-insurance
Who Does Not Need Long Term Care Insurance ?
Persons who do not have a lot of assets to lose if they were to need long term care services may find that the cost of Long Term Care Insurance is not worth the sacrifice . On the other hand , those who have very large estates may feel that they are able to pay for their own Long Term Care if the need arises , and may not consider it necessary to purchase Long Term Care Insurance .
Maybe one should not get long-term care insurance . Let 's start there . If an individual or a family has a sizeable estate that either is liquid or can be liquidated and be made readily available to pay for the cost of long-term care , maybe long-term care is n't needed . If , on the other extreme , you have a very small estate comprised of no real estate and very little personal property of any worth and will rely almost entirely on Social Security in retirement , you ca n't afford long-term care premiums , now or in the future . You will have to have a plan , however , in case you do need long-term care . A family discussion around the topic should be scheduled so that those that might become either temporary or permanent caregivers are fully apprised of the responsibilities and sacrifices that may have to be made . Medicaid qualification should be fully investigated and the benefits and limitations understood . People buy long-term care for roughly the same reason they buy life insurance . One buys life insurance because they care about the financial security of those that are left behind . One buys long-term care insurancebecause they care about those that might have to take care of them if they ca n't take care of themselves . Long-term care costs are not covered by conventional health insurance , Medicare , and most Medicare supplement insurance . They can be very expensive , especially ifthe elderly person lives a long-period of time in a state of incapacity . Caregivers will be spouses and adult children are likely to be caregivers whether one owns long-term care insurance or not . Long-term care insurance is for caregivers . It gives them choices about the quality of care that can be afforded and whether they can be relieved of some of the responsibility for caregiving . Many elderly spouses of those that ca n't take care of themselves become disabled themselves because of the emotional and psychological energy expended in caregiving . Adult children sometimes get caught in a conflict over eldercare and parenting growing children . Long-term care insurance provides income-tax-free money to hire trained individuals to care for loved ones . Ultimately , it allows the insured to die with dignity and peace . Getting back to the wealthy that do n't need to buy long-term care insurance , guess what ? Many wealthy couples and individuals do . They understand leverage : paying smaller dollars now for larger dollars later , if needed . They also understand that in many situations , premiums for long-term care may be tax-deductible . What about the middle class ? They would have to design their coverage to help offset the cost of long-term care . No matter how much one spends , no long-term care insurance policy can guarantee to cover all possible long-term care expenses . But , the average claim is about 24 - 26 months . Buying a long-term care policy with a pool of money sufficient to cover at least part of those costs would be prudent . Is buying a basic plan for long-term care that would pay only half of one 's long-term care costs be a bad deal ? I do n't think anyone that 's paying $ 400/day for facility care and being reimbursed for $ 200/day would find that of no value .
Short answer : About 8 % Long answer : It 's hard to say exactly how many people own some type of policy that covers paying the costs of long term care - should one qualify for it - because there are many types of insurance policies that are not just `` stand-alone '' long-term care policies , but plans of insurance that include being able to use a percentage of other plan benefits for paying long-term care costs :1 . Stand-alone long-term care insurance covers only long-term care costs . It has no cash value . When a policy owner dies , coverage either lapses or stops paying benefits . It is not transferable . It can not be bought or sold on a secondary market . This type of long-term care insurance is sometimes referred to as `` traditional '' long-term care insurance , as well . It is the type of coverage that is most often associated with the `` percentage of Americans that own their own long-term care insurance '' .2 . Hybrid long-term care contracts consist of having long-term coverage and a life insurance policy that guarantees to at least return the full premium paid into the policy to the insured 's designated beneficiary . Usually , these are single-premium contracts , but some have options to also pay over a specified period of time , such as 5 - or 10-years .3 . Linked life + long-term care policies are basically a traditional permanent life insurance contract -LRB- Whole Life or Universal Life , including the Variable or Indexed type -RRB- . If a person qualifies for long-term care and they have the long-term care rider on their life policy , they may apply to the insurance company to advance or accelerate the face value of the policy -LRB- death benefit -RRB- to pay for the costs of care . There are various limitations on how much can be advanced at a time . If the face value of the life contract is completely advanced for long-term care , there is usually a residual death benefit of $ 5,000 - $ 10,000.4 . The latest addition to life insurance product lines are policies offering `` living benefits '' , one of which is very similar to the linked-life policy . In fact , the only difference is that a medical professional has to state in writing that the insured is not likely to recover from the condition that qualifies for long-term care benefits . -LRB- True long-term care insurance does not require that . -RRB- This type of living benefit is most often referred to as `` chronic care '' or `` extended care '' . Annuities may also have special considerations for paying out portions of the account value for long-term care costs.The point is , people who own life insurance or annuity contracts with long-term care accommodations are not typically included in with the 8 % that own traditional long-term care . So , the real percentage of those that have made some type of insurance purchase to offset long-term care costs is greater than 8 % . I doubt , however , that the total percentage of Americans that own any of the above-described types of policies would exceed 20 % at this time .
A better question would be `` Who Should n't Buy Long-term Care Insurance '' ? Thats simpler to answer . The following people should NOT buy long term care insurance : 1 . Those that can not afford the premium on even a base policy . 2 . Those that have virtually no assets to pass on to the next generationand will need every available dollar saved for retirement . 3 . Those that will have to work until they die for lack of savings and insufficient Social Security payments or private pension . 4 . Those that can not medically qualify . 5 . Those that are already unable to perform regular daily activities of living without assistance . People in those conditions may qualify for the payment of long-term care through Medicaid -LRB- MediCal in California -RRB- if they come to a point in their life where they need care and ca n't afford it . If the above conditions describe you in any way , you should be sitting down with your adult children or closest relatives and coming up with a plan of action should you be unable to take care of yourself . Everyone else should consider buying some long-term care insurance through an agent or agency that either specializes or has a specialist that is experienced in handling long-term care insurance casework . Having some amount of insurance is better than having none . When one qualifies to receive payments from the insurance company for long-term care , they are usually near the end of their life . The average long-term care claim is approximately 2 - 2.5 years . For those that need care longer than that , virtually all but the most unusual claims are paid out after 5 years . Families with a history of late-life mental illness -LRB- dementia or Alzheimers -RRB- should consider buying a larger pool of money than others , if they can afford it . It is in the best interest of the adult children to help out with long-term care premium payments if the elderly parents can not afford to pay all of the costs . Long-term care is an emotional , psychological , sociological , and family problem as much as it is financial . For the dignity of those who need care and the people or person most likely to be the caregiver , there needs to be a plan of action determined and long-term care insurance should be a part of that plan if it can be afforded and the person is medically qualified . Long-term care insurance is best purchased when young . Premiums can and will go up during the life of the policy if all the bells and whistles are included in the design of the coverage . But , those increases will seem like pocket-change if one needs long-term care . $ 80,000 per year is not unusual for facility care today . 24/7 home care can exceed $ 20,000 per month ! With family help , home care costs can be kept down . But , if facility care is required , there 's not much that can be done about avoiding high costs . Long-term care costs vary by place . The left - and right-hand coasts are the most expensive . Relocation may be necessary to get affordable care in a quality facility .
Not everyone needs long term care insurance . LTCI is not for persons who are struggling to meet their day to day living expenses , rent an apartment , and have little savings and no investments . If such a person needed to go to a nursing home , Medicaid will almost immediately start picking up their tab and they will be fine . Long term care insurance is for those who have substantial assets or income that they do n't want to `` lose '' by paying high long term care costs . Some people are OK with their savings going to long term care expenses , if needed . They figure that is why they saved . Others feel strongly that they want to pass that wealth to heirs to continue a business , care for a disabled adult child , or help grandchildren go to college , among a myriad of other reasons . It is this latter segment of the population that `` needs '' long term care insurance , especially if they are not so very wealthy that paying nursing home expenses for many years would simply dent their resources , rather than deplete them . If they can afford long term care insurance , but would not be able to to pay for long term care services , people who are adamant about choosing the type of care they receive , or persons who are setting up a plan so that their children do n't have to worry about it , also could use long term care insurance . As long as Medicaid is around , no one absolutely needs long term care insurance . But for all the reasons above , many people would consider it a need if they looked at it realistically .
Roughly sixty percent of Americans will require long term care services sometime during their lifetime . This is not exclusively a problem for the elderly as younger people can require this type of care some times . This level of care includes a range of services including skilled and custodial care that is provided over a long period of time . These requirements come from chronic sickness or injury , cognitive impairment and physical disability . Hospitals provide acute care . Medical care given over a long period of time for chronic conditions is where the need for long term care arises . Sometimes custodial care is required because the patient has lost the ability to do one of the recognized activities of daily living or instrumental activities of daily living . Most of the long term care given in the US is given by family members . However , there are many situations where family members can not provide necessary care . Professional and non-professionals can provide aid and assistance to these people . This long term care can be given in the home of the patient or in a variety of institutional settings . Long term care can be given in day-care facilities , nursing homes , and assisted living facilities . On average men need more than two years of long term care while women need almost four years on average ? The leading causes for patients requiring long term care are dementia , arthritis , cancer , stroke and nervous conditions . Caring for a patient in a home setting can cost up to $ 150,000 per year . The cost for a nursing home bed is about $ 75,000 per year -LRB- this varies by location . -RRB- There are basically four ways to finance long term care . The family can take the expense out of their own pocket , they can look to government programs -LRB- if they qualify , -RRB- they can use long term care insurance or they can rely upon charity . For a variety of reasons long term care insurance has provided a solution for many people . LTC insurance provides predictability for an otherwise unpredictable risk . It has become such popular coverage and policyholders have been so reluctant to drop their coverage that the benefits have started exceeding the premiums . It is quite popular among wealthy policyholders . Many companies that offered coverage have withdrawn and others have been forced to raise their premiums . This adjustment seems to be complete now . There are various forms of LTC coverage . Policies different widely . It is rather difficult to compare but is worth the effort . When deciding on a policy the first thing to establish is the amount of coverage you want and the period of time you want coverage . The second consideration is how soon after the start of long term care will you want the policy to start paying . This waiting period is computed in several ways so care must be exercised to make sure you are making a fair comparison . Not all policies use the same events to trigger benefits so care should be taken in this area as well . This can be a very technical area so compare your situation with the policy requirements . How a policy pays out will vary according to the policy . Some policies provide for reimbursement of expenses , others use an indemnity form which pays up to a specific limit of expenses incurred on each specific day , and some are on a cash model which pays a maximum benefit regardless of the actual cost of the care that is being given . Long term care insurance is a way to protect assets . The alternatives deplete assets with the government programs requiring a person to be in poverty .
Long Term Health Care Insurance is called , simply , Long Term Care Insurance . It covers the cost of living in a nursing home , assisted living home , or receiving other types of services when the insured person is unable to take care of themselves . Among those who should buy Long Term Care Insurance are those who have many assets and feel strongly that they do not want their assets to go toward paying long term care expenses . People who want to have many choices in how and where they are cared for , should they be unable to care for themselves , are also people who would benefit from Long Term Care insurance , if they can afford it . Finally , persons whose families want the security of knowing that their parents will not rely on them for long term care , if needed , are those who should considering buying Long Term Care insurance .
70 % of people who are 65 years old will need to use some type of long term care in their lifetime . And , as they age the likelihood of needing long term care will increase . The cost for this care is very expensive and it is not covered by conventional health insurance - commercial carriers or Medicare . This is because our health care system is geared to acute care not long term care . According to the 2015 Genworth survey the national average cost for a semi-private room in a nursing home is about $ 80,000 . More , for a private room . Home Health care costs average $ 20/hour . These expense arise when most people are living on a fixed income with little room for added expenses . Especially , unplanned ones . Baby boomers have not been great at planning for retirement . One year of long term care can ruin someone 's retirement plans . This is what happens in many cases ; families deplete their assets and end up qualifying for Medicaid -LRB- aka Welfare -RRB- to pay for long term care expenses . The question people need to ask themselves is when the need for long term care arises , will they have the money to pay for this care ? This is what long term care insurance can do for them . Insurance is the only financial vehicle that promises a specific amount of money at a point in time . There is no other . Even though this can be an expensive premium , depending on the age at which the policy is purchased , compared to the benefits paid , it is worth the outlay for most people . Not only because it will help pay the bills . Long term care insurance policies offer additional benefits that most people are unaware of . Most importantly , all carriers offer optional care management to assist with the difficult decisions about care , choosing facilities and offering discounts on major providers of care . Many times families need someone to discuss options with who is educated about all the options available and is n't emotionally involved with their situation . This is where the care manager can be of tremendous help and the family does not have to go to the expense of hiring a geriatric care manager . The policies will also pay for modifications to be made to the home to keep the person at home rather than moving them to a nursing home .
Under certain conditions , Medicare Part A will cover intermittent or part-time home health care provided by a skilled nurse . Again , Medicares requirements for receiving home care are quite strict . Medicare will pay for home health care to treat an illness or injury only if a person meetsallof the following requirements : - A doctor must determine that medical care is needed at home and must make a plan for such care . - The person needs intermittent skilled nursing care , physical therapy , speech therapy , or occupational therapy . - The person is homebound , which means generally unable to leave home -LRB- when a person leaves , it must be infrequent and for a short time only , such as to go to a doctors appointment -RRB- . - The home health care agency must be Medicare-approved . Keep in mind that unlike Medicares nursing home benefit , a person does not need to be admitted to a hospital first in order to qualify for Medicare home health care . In addition , services will be provided on an intermittent or part-time basis only by a visiting nurse , therapist , or home health aide . Medicares home health care benefit does not pay for 24-hour full-time care . Medicare generally limits its home health care benefit because the program is only designed to serve individuals who need intermittent care for a relatively short period of time rather than care on a daily basis . Once a person is receiving Medicare home health care , his or her plan of care will be reviewed at least every 60 days . If the persons health changes and care is no longer needed , the home health agency will notify the individuals doctor , who must then contact Medicare . From that point , home care will no longer be covered by Medicare . The Medicare home health care benefit will not pay for homemaker services such as housekeeping , shopping , and cleaning . It also does not pay for custodial carethat is , help with meeting daily personal needs such as bathing , toileting , transferring , or eating . Because most people who need long-term care need custodial care , financial practitioners should point out this shortcoming to clients . Many people who do qualify for Medicare home health care benefits still need to pay for additional custodial care in order to live comfortably and independently at home .
Under certain conditions , Medicare Part A will cover intermittent or part-time home health care provided by a skilled nurse . Again , Medicares requirements for receiving home care are quite strict . Medicare will pay for home health care to treat an illness or injury only if a person meetsallof the following requirements : A doctor must determine that medical care is needed at home and must make a plan for such care . The person needs intermittent skilled nursing care , physical therapy , speech therapy , or occupational therapy . The person is homebound , which means generally unable to leave home -LRB- when a person leaves , it must be infrequent and for a short time only , such as to go to a doctors appointment -RRB- . The home health care agency must be Medicare-approved . Keep in mind that unlike Medicares nursing home benefit , a person does not need to be admitted to a hospital first in order to qualify for Medicare home health care . In addition , services will be provided on an intermittent or part-time basis only by a visiting nurse , therapist , or home health aide . Medicares home health care benefit does not pay for 24-hour full-time care . Medicare generally limits its home health care benefit because the program is only designed to serve individuals who need intermittent care for a relatively short period of time rather than care on a daily basis . Once a person is receiving Medicare home health care , his or her plan of care will be reviewed at least every 60 days . If the persons health changes and care is no longer needed , the home health agency will notify the individuals doctor , who must then contact Medicare . From that point , home care will no longer be covered by Medicare . The Medicare home health care benefit will not pay for homemaker services such as housekeeping , shopping , and cleaning . It also does not pay for custodial carethat is , help with meeting daily personal needs such as bathing , toileting , transferring , or eating . Because most people who need long-term care need custodial care , financial practitioners should point out this shortcoming to clients . Many people who do qualify for Medicare home health care benefits still need to pay for additional custodial care in order to live comfortably and independently at home .
Who really needs long term care insurance ? EVERYBODY . The question really is who can afford long term care insurance ? What long term care insurance does for a person is create a pool of money to purchase the quality of care they want , rather than what they have to settlefor . All long term care insurance does is pay for better care and nicer facilities to reside in or home health care . When you do n't carry a long term care policy and have used up yourassets , you can still get care , covered by thegovernment , cept your say in the quality of care you receiveno longermatters . With the government having to find ways tomake budgets work , caringfor the elderly tends to slip down in priority funding wise .
If you have family history that has reoccurring nursing home care or home care assistance , you may need long term care insurance . If you play the morbidity odds of geriatric living , youll need long term care insurance . If you generated extended care expenses that you can not financially cover , you need long term care insurance . If you play the morbidity odds of geriatric living , youll need long term care insurance . If you generated extended care expenses that you can not financially cover , you need long term care insurance . A male and a female age 60 , nonsmoker and in good health with a full coverage and inflation rider from a quality long term care insurance company will pay around $ 300 a month for the max coverage .
Asset Based Long Term Care provides a unique solution to providing for the expense of long term care while at the same time providing other benefits . Generally , it is provided with a base of life insurance or an annuity . One of the problems with traditional Long Term Care Insurance is affordability . Also the underwriting is very strict . Because Asset Based Long Term Care is underwritten much like a life insurance policy , it is usually easier to qualify . Many traditional Long Term Care policies are use it or lose it , although many policies do have return of premium provisions . With Asset Based Long Term care written with a life insurance chassis , if you do not use the long term care provision , you beneficiaries will receive the death benefit , as in a traditional life insurance policy . If the plan is Annuity based , you receive the interest and tax advantages of an annuity , but the flexibility of utilizing the funds for long term care should you need it . While most of these hybrid products are not as comprehensive as traditional long term care they can be a great alternative depending on the goals and personal situation of the client .
Term Life Insurance can sometimes be converted to help pay for long term care expenses through a program called Long Term Care Benefit Plan . The same is true for Whole Life , Universal Life , and Group Life Insurance . When someone is applying for Medicaid , they may find that their cash value policy has too high a face amount , and must be surrendered . Others facing the need for long term care may have Term coverage they no longer need . The Long Term Care Benefit Plan uses a formula of the face amount of the policy , the premiums being paid , and the health care needs of the policy owner to determine how much can be paid monthly to the institution or person providing that care . It also allows a small percent of the death benefit to stay in effect for funeral costs . The conversion does not change your Life Insurance to Long Term Care Insurance . Rather , the money is placed into an irrevocable account that is professionally administered . Long Term Care Benefit Plans are legal in all 50 states , and can be used with policies that have been in force over two years .
In all honesty , Long Term Care Insurance is not important for everyone . If you have very few assets and low income , you may sacrifice to pay Long Term Care premiums for extended care that may or may not be needed , and that Medicaid could cover if needed . If being able to choose your own place and type of extended care is important to you , then Long Term Care Insurance is a great thing to own even with low assets , as long as you can afford to pay the premiums . Long Term Care Insurance is most important for those who have an estate to protect . If you have saved up to pass an inheritance to your loved ones , or wish to pass a business to a successor , your intentions could be jeopardized if you were to to need care for an extended period of time . Long Term Care can pay that for you and allow your estate to remain untouched .
The reason people buy Long Term Care Insurance is so that they have the resources to pay for home health care , assisted living care , nursing home care , or some other types of care that are needed if they are unable to take care of themselves independently . Some people with large estates get Long Term Care insurance because they do not want all their hard earned money or property go to paying a nursing home . Rates of $ 100,000 per year are not uncommon for skilled nursing care . In order to qualify for Medicaid to pay these expenses , resources must be spent down to almost nothing -LRB- if a spouse is at home , the spouse does get to keep half of the couple 's resources -RRB- . So having Long Term Care insurance to pay for these costs both helps preserve the estate and assists the spouse left at home , if applicable . One aspect of Long Term Care insurance that is not always considered is the freedom of choice that is offered to persons who carry insurance to cover chronic care expenses . If they have the right type of coverage , they can pay a relative to come live with them or choose home health care , if that works . If they must go to a nursing home , they have more choice in the facility they want to live in , versus having to go with the room arrangements or facilities that only Medicaid will cover . This is not to say that Long Term Care Insurance is for everyone . If you have very few resources and are already on Medicaid , or anticipate getting Medicaid benefits in the future , there is no need to purchase Long Term Care Insurance . And if you need to dip into grocery money , forego medical care , or lead a poor quality of life to pay for LTC insurance , that is not worth it . Consulting with agencies that can shop for these policies to get you the best rate , and also guide you through the decision whether and what to buy LTC insurance , is a great place to start .
The main disadvantages of Long Term Care insurance would be that you would die before you were able to use it or that you would be blessed with a long and healthy life and never need long term care before you passed away . Other than that the disadvantages are that it is becoming more expensive and that fewer insurance carriers are offering Long Term Care insurance . Of course , the reasons for this are testimony to the need for long term care insurance , people are living longer and therefore more people are having some period of need for long term care and long term care facilities are getting more expensive .
First of all , there is no federal long-term care program . If a person is or becomes `` indigent '' by state standards , they may qualify to have their long-term care facility expenses paid for by Medicaid -LRB- Medical in CA -RRB- . There is a commission in Washington currently debating if there will be a federal long-term care program , but they will have no power to institute one and it 's doubtful that given our current budget deficit , a comprehensive program could be afforded by either the states or the feds -LRB- Medicaid is a jointly funded and administered medical program for the poor -RRB- . Private long-term care programs at this point in time consist of applying to an insurance company and going through full underwriting to determine insurability . If so , they are issued a long-term care policy of insurance . Only insurance agents that are certified to sell long term care -LRB- most states -RRB- can do so . There is a Partnership long-term care program in 36 states -LRB- plus charter Partnership programs still going in CA , CT , NY , and IN -RRB- . The state departments of health `` partner '' with the person with a Partnership-approved long-term care plan of insurance so that if they blow through the insurance policy maximum benefits and are still alive , the amount of the payout from the insurance company will increase the impoverishment threshold dollar-for-dollar for that person and if the insured 's personal non-exempt assets are lower than what the insurance company has paid out , Medicaid will take over payment of the person 's long-term care costs until s/he dies.Note that there are some limitations1 . The person needs to be in a facility for full payment of costs by Medicaid . -LRB- Home care reimbursement from Medicaid is under $ 300/mo . -RRB- 2 . A lien in the amount of money paid out by Medicaid is levied against the patient 's estate . -LRB- This is currently being debated and is a point of contention with some states and consumer groups . Whether it will actually be done is not certain , but it 's `` on the books '' . -RRB- 3 . While there is a promise that no discrimination will be made between `` Medicaid patients '' and `` paying patients '' in nursing facilities , audits of some facilities have found that there are , in fact , `` Medicaid rooms '' and regular rooms . When discovered , those facilities are supposedly ordered to make no distinction in treatment , care , or placement of patients based on their ability to pay.At this time , it is clear that there is a looming problem of how to take care of the elderly of the boomer generation as that demographic bubble passes through old age . And , though medical technology allows people to live longer , that life is not necessarily better . No solution has yet been proposed at the federal level . The problem will fall to Medicaid for now . Recent surveys have shown that only about 7-8 % of the population owns its own long-term care insurance . Some calculations indicate that Medicaid is solvent for only another 8-10 years as currently administered .
If you do not have an estate to protect then you may not need Long Term Care . If you can qualify for Medicaid or a Medicaid waiver program then you do not need long term care . If you do not mind spending down all you have worked for during your life to go on Medicaid then you do not need long term care . If you have an estate you want to pass to your heirs , loved ones you want to protect from the burdens of caring for you when you become sick and can no longer care for yourself then you do need long term care insurance . If you want choices on where you are cared for then you need long term care .
The average cost of long-term care insurance depends on a number of factors as the policies are very customizable . If you 're looking for a more basic option , I would estimate a range of around $ 1,800 - $ 2,300 per year in premiums . If you want something more comprehensive , you 're probably looking at something more so in the range of $ 4,000 - $ 6,000 per year . The most comprehensive plans can be $ 7,000 or more per year . Factors such as the person 's age , health , only applying as an individual , applying as a married couple , daily benefit levels , benefit periods , compound inflation options , elimination/waiting periods , and other items will really impact what the cost for a plan will be . In today 's world , there 's a very good chance you will need long-term care at some point in your life . If you were paying for long-term care out of pocket , you can expect to be writing a check for at least $ 40,000 per year - something more specialized like a nursing home , then possibly well over $ 100,000 per year . Unfortunately , not too many people can write that check . While writing a check for several thousand dollars a year in premiums for long-term care coverage can have a bit of sticker shock , it can potentially save you 10 's of thousands of dollars in the future if it happens to you . So the idea of the coverage is to transfer the risk to the insurance company in exchange for a small premium and use their money rather than your own to pay for the expenses if that care is ever needed . The long and short being that the `` average cost '' is an irrelevant figure . It only gives you an idea . The actual cost you can expect to pay depends on your needs and what you want to accomplish with the coverage . From there you can start to compare numbers . I would suggest speaking with an independent insurance agent who works with long-term care insurance products and can compare multiple companies for you . An agent can help you sort through all the zigs and zags of long-term care insurance and help determine what coverage will best serve your needs . If you need help with your coverage , please feel free to call or e-mail me via the contact me button - I have an agent in my group with a strong background in long-term care insurance . I hope the information is helpful - please let me know if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
end question
start question
auto-insurance
How Long Does A Ticket Stay On Your Driving Record For Insurance Companies To See ?
Minor traffic tickets usually just stay on your driving record for three years . More serious traffic violations can stay on your driving record for insurance companies to see for 10 years or more , even a lifetime . However , life insurance companies do not consider traffic tickets or violations that occurred before a certain amount of time . You should be able to get a Preferred rate now .
Minor traffic tickets usually just stay on your driving record for three years . More serious traffic violations can stay on your driving record for insurance companies to see for 10 years or more , even a lifetime . However , life insurance companies do not consider traffic tickets or violations that occurred before a certain amount of time . You should be able to get a Preferred rate now .
I understand it 's hard when you have a driver with , shall we say , a less than stellar driving record . Most companies , however , will want your husband to be named on your auto insurance policy . Over the years they 've realized that people drive the cars that they own whether they 're insured on a policy or not . It 's just the reality of the situation . However , that does n't mean that your rates have to be sky-high , as you put it . There are some pointers I can give you to help minimize the impact . Your husband can get his own insurance separate from yours . If his record is bad enough that he has be placed with a non standard -LRB- high risk -RRB- company , you can still have a policy through a standard company . As long as he has insurance , he does n't have to be listed as a driver on your policy . Whether you choose to have him get his own policy or list him on yours , list him on a car that does n't have physical damage coverage -LRB- comp and collision -RRB- . Physical damage coverage on a non standard policy can cost big dollars , as much as 75 % of the total cost of the insurance . Track his driving record . Any violation will eventually drop off for rating purposes . Most minor violations will drop off after two years , at fault accidents will usually drop off after three years , and major violations -LRB- DUI etc. -RRB- will drop off after five years . As soon as he 's eligible to be insured through a standard carrier , list him . Many people do n't realize this and continue to pay non standard rates even after they 're eligible . I 'll preface this last point by saying I do n't recommend it . Some companies can exclude a driver . In so doing they 're not rated on the policy and they 're record does n't matter . But realize that there is no coverage if they get into an accident , even if they 're driving a car on the policy . Once again , I do not recommend this . From time to time I see a driver that has a problem driving safely . They routinely get tickets and have accidents . Some will even just stop carrying insurance because it 's so expensive but do n't seem to see the correlation between their driving and their insurance rates . If he will , get him into a safe driving program . If he wo n't , you 'll probably be dealing with this for a long time . Good luck .
In California the answer is anabsoluteyes . California is governed by proposition 103guidelinesand one of the major rating factors is driving record . Every personal lines auto insurance carrier must rate according to your driving record so 1 point will have an impact . This impact can be quite significant . 2 points in a 3 year period and you are no longer considered a California a good driver . This can cause rates to easily double in many cases . I often see clients who move in from out of state who have points on their driving record get a big shock to find out there rates areaffectedby a ticket . So what is a point you may ask . Any minor moving violation is 1 point . A major moving violation can be 2 points with a DUI coming in at 4 points . A minor at-fault accident is 1 point . A at-fault accident that includes bodily injury is 2 points . You may attend traffic school for a minor violation in most areas once every 18 months . All the rest you just have to wait out the 3 years until the points drop off your record . Also some insurance carriers reward drivers for clean driving records that go beyond 3 years so even though your points may have dropped off you still may not be receiving the best rates possible until 5-7 years . And by the way , Insurance carriers in California will check the driving record once a year minimum if not more often . If you move from one carrier to the next an upfront motor vehicle record is always ran .
A speeding ticket will not always increase your auto insurance rate . For example , the insurer may check your driving record every 2-3 years . in those instances , you may have a few years of retaining specific discounts before there is a rate change . Of course , the carrier may check the record annually . It is also possible the ticket has no impact on your rates . Each company is different with separate sets of underwriting guidelines . When applying for a new policy , a recent ticket will have a bigger impact . Since the underwriting department bases your premium on your current driving record , it will likely impact the rate you are offered .
The ticket you received wo n't count against you regardless of whether or not you attend the driving school class , but the at-fault accident will . Even if the ticket went on your driving record , it would not be counted . Because when you have 2 or more violations on the same day , insurance companies only count the most severe violation . Which in your case is the accident . And yes , other insurance companies will know about your accident . Even if you are lucky enough to not have either the accident or ticket show up on your driving record , it will still show up on your insurance score -LRB- known as CLUE -RRB- if a claim is paid .
It depends on a few different things . First , the type of vehicle will affect the policy premium . For example , a 2005 Toyota Corolla would typically have a lower premium than a 2005 Cadillac Escalade due to the cost difference in the vehicle and the cost difference in the repairs of the vehicle.Second , the driving record of the insured will affect the policy premium . For example , someone with one speeding ticket and an at fault accident will have a higher policy premium than someone with no speeding tickets or accidents . Thisis due to the fact that the insurance companieswill see that person witha ticket and accident as a greater risk to insure than the other person with a clean driving record . Third , the garaged location -LRB- home -RRB- of the vehicle will affect the policy premium . If you are garaging your vehicle in an area with a high rate of auto theft or vandalism the policy premium will be higher than in an area with a low rate of auto theft or vandalism . Again , this goes back to a greater risk for the insurance company . There are many more rating factors that the insurance companies use and they differ from state to state . Here in Arizona , for example , they will look at your credit score , occupation , and highest level of education in order to provide you with a price on coverage .
Having a poor driving record can cause life insurance rates to go up , or even cause a policy to be postponed or declined . However , there are usually No Exam policies to turn to if a medically underwritten policy is declined due to driving record . Some aspects of the driving record that can affect rates or approval are : the number of tickets within the past few years , drug or alcohol related driving violations , repeat convictions , and suspended drivers license .
Good Question There are some factors that insurance companies look at to figure the rate . your age the car you drive your driving record how many year you been driving accident record or tickets if you are married or single your education level Plan on paying about $ 90 - $ 200 a month in CA that is the average rate in that state .
Car insurance companies can request to see your driving record when you apply for coverage . This information is used to determine the rate you pay and what discounts you could qualify for , that might reduce your premium . Since each carrier is different , a broker can make it easy for you to find the lowest rates in your area and apply for that coverage . If you have had tickets and accidents that might still appear on your driving record , a broker can compare the best options from dozens of companies . Online quotes from the top websites can also help . There is never a charge for receiving quotes .
Most insurance companies will give you one speeding ticket , in fact since most companies only do periodic checks , they may not know about the ticket right away . The effect on your rates should be minimal if at all . This varies by company however so check with your local agent . Do not call the insurance company to ask them directly however . That phone call could result in a check and depending on the company , could result in an increase if you have more than the one incident on your record or you are getting a discount for a perfect driving record .
That is a great question ! And a hard one to answer , for a couple of reasons.The first would be is this a CDL license , one seperate from your regular driver 's license ? Were all driving priveleges suspended , or just CDL ? Some states require all driving priveleges be lost with that suspension , others just the CDL . If you lost one , but not the other , it may make a difference . Another would be the company that you were recently hired by 's insurer . They might be really sticky about that , or fairly understanding , based upon how they see the reason for the suspension . They may look at it like , `` he got a speeding ticket , and just did n't pay it until years later , and only because he wanted this job , he 's probably been driving on that suspended all this time '' and go from there , or they might look at only that it had been suspended , but everything was taken care of and it was reinstated , which is good enough . If they check with the other insurance , and see that you 've been paying for auto insurance and had a clean record , -LRB- which would lead one to assume that you had kept a regular drivers license unsuspended , or that you had moved from one State to another -RRB- you could hope that they would be lenient . I hope it works out in your favor . Thanks for asking !
You ca n't get insurance if your license is suspended . However , if you have a restrictive license -LRB- the one court activates for you to drive to and from work -RRB- the rates will be about the same - shop with multiple carriers to find a best deal . And if you have already cleared the ticket and your license is back to the active status , same like above , you should be able to find coverage with regular rates . The carrier will increase rates when you have points on your record and/or property damage / injuries during the last 3 years of your driving history . You can get your driving record at any DMV in your state . You can also buy your driving report online . Usually DMV charges $ 3 - $ 10 , whereas online vendors charge $ 19.99 + .
Yes , they can , in certain situations . I 'll say first that I can only answer for Michigan but most states do behave similarly . Your eligibility for auto insurance with a standard carrier is measured on a point system . To be eligible for a standard carrier in Michigan , you can not have more than 6 eligibility points . The point system is pretty simple , with more points for more serious infractions . For instance , a speeding ticket for 5mph over the speed limit , and other similar violations are worth two points while an at fault accident is worth three . These points do have an expiration , normally two to three years for accidents and minor violations . Major violations such as a DUI or wreckless driving expire in five years and one of these deems you ineligible . Your insurance company can cancel your policy if you reach 7 points or more that have n't expired . Two at fault accidents in the last three years will also get you here as your second at fault is charged four eligibility points . Two things to consider : First , you can still get insurance if you have been cancelled but it 'll cost you a lot more . Second , do n't think that , just because the judge said he 'd waive the points from a ticket , these wo n't count for insurance purposes because they will . If it shows up on a driving record or a claims record , the companies have no choice but to apply them . If you have a good agent , he can find coverage for you even if you 've been cancelled by a company . Be smart , find an agent you can trust , and listen to him/her . You 'll come out better in the long run .
Each company treats this differently , but depending on your driving record -LRB- and a few other factors -RRB- before this and the level of the speeding ticket your rates will likely increase . How much your premium will change is determined by the matrix that your auto insurance carrier uses to determine your rate . You would have to contact your local agent to determine how the ticket would affect you .
Auto insurance companies do not share information directly but all information is shared . Insurance companies report incidents to a data base which is then accessed by insurance companies when needed . For example you have an at-fault auto accident and your rates go up . You are upset about this so you shop around for insuranceelsewhere The new company will check the data base for your driving record to see if you have tickets or accidents and then crate your insurance policy accordingly . While incidents on your record may only effect you for a short period of time . For minor incidents 3 years . I have seen data show up that was 10 years old .
Great question ! Unfortunately , that is a tough question to answer without a little more information from you . There are many reasons why your rates may increase within the state mandated rate limits . Some things that can raise your rates are a result of how you drive . A claim filed for an ` at fault ' accident can raise your rate , as can a poor driving record , or speeding tickets , in some cases . -LRB- You are a bigger risk for a payout , so you pay more , just as someone who smokes pays more for life insurance - smoking has been proven to increase your health risks , and bad driving habits increase your risk for an accident . -RRB- Some things are not in your control - rates can increase if the vehicle theft rate in your area increases , if the company has had to pay out significant claims , and their profits are down , or you move into a different age category in some cases . Some companies will even look at your creditworthiness as a basis for your rates . The purpose of insurance is n't to provide you with a steady rate as much as it is to help you in the event that you are in a position where the cost to repair or replace a car is more than you can afford . That said , there are some companies that will offer `` first accident forgiveness '' types of policies , and are a bit more lenient in their rate changes . I 'd tell you that if you are unhappy with your current rate to shop around and see if there is a better company or rate that fits your budget . If you have further questions , please contact me , I 'd be happy to help . Sorry for the unpleasant answer , but I appreciate you asking !
It is possible your car insurance will go up after a speeding ticket . However , you may not notice any increases until your driving record is checked by your insurer . It is still possible there will not be an increase . However , if the ticket were for a DUI , you can count an increase coming much quicker and harsher than a speeding ticket .
Another term for Substandard Auto Insurance is High Risk . Auto insurance rates are based on driving record , age , insurance credit score and claim history . If your driving record falls below what a company considers a standard risk they put you in substandard . While it varies by company , most companies will allow two or three tickets or At Fault accidents before putting you in substandard . A DUI will automatically put you in substandard . Insurance laws vary by state .
The cost of auto insurance will vary depending on a number of factors , including your age , where you live , the type of vehicles you drive and how good -LRB- or bad ! -RRB- your driving record is . If you are currently insured , that will also likely reduce your cost . A young single driver with multiple tickets and accidents is likely to pay the highest premium . And conversely , a married driver with a clean driving record will pay less . Of course , the coverage , including liability limits and deductibles will impact the rate . Specifically , monthly rates could be as low as $ 30 - $ 40 for some drivers and much much higher for others . The state where you reside will be a major determinant in the price of coverage . While a state such as New Jersey may have fairly high rates , other states such as Ohio will feature lower rates . To get a specific and accurate quote , an independent broker or a reputable car insurance website will provide prices from multiple carriers which will help you find the best deal . Whether you live in Arizona , Michigan or any other state , the quotes are free .
end question
start question
medicare-insurance
How Will Medicare Cuts Affect Patients ?
Medicare cuts hurt everyone , patients and providers alike . When Congress reduces funding for Medicare that means you have fewer choices , are expected to pay higher premiums , copay 's , deductibles and out of pocket . Congress also seeks to limit the amount they pay providers for services rendered . When this happens fewer doctors will take on new patients and stretch out the time between appointments .
That is an excellent question ! According to the latest that I have read , The cuts that the Affordable Care Act -LRB- Obamacare -RRB- have mandated are not expected to affect the services provided in any significant way . The cuts are being made in inflated overhead costs , and in benefits paid to health providers who have high rates of return patients . -LRB- ones who were not well when released , or who picked up infections from their hospital stay , most commonly -RRB- . There undoubtedly will be some providers who will close shop , as they will see significant cuts if they are inefficient , or ineffective in the treatment they provide , and some that were being fraudulent to begin with . Overall , the consensus seems to be that no services will be greatly affected , that billing procedures will be streamlined and improved , and that patients will receive better care . Thanks for asking !
That is a great question ! There is an awful lot of misinformation , political manipulation , and muddying of the facts , so it 's really hard to see exactly what is going on . There are some good and bad things that the ACA does with its association with Medicare , and I 'll let you decide which is which . First off is you do not have any changes to your current plan , nor is it even legal for someone to tell you that you have to drop your current plan and try to enroll youin the marketplace . All current plans are grandfathered . One thing the ACA does is close the `` donut hole '' in coverage in Medicare part D . It will eventually phase out the patient cost until it becomes just the usual co-pay , increasing the likelihood that seniors will be able to afford their medications . It also expands coverage by making checkups and wellness visits -LRB- preventative care -RRB- not subject to deductible or co-pays . It does have cuts of $ 716 billion to the Medicare , mostly in the MedicareAdvantage plans that are run by private insurers . We are told that those cuts are to come from reduction in fraud , provider overpayments , and administration overhead . We are also told that the money from those cuts are being reinvested into the Medicare system , and that those reinvestments are expected to keep Medicare 's trust fund solvent until 2029 , an extra 12 years . It will also make cuts to hospitals that have higher return rates of patients by cutting the Medicare payments to those hospitals that are providing the least quality care . -LRB- Interestingly enough , that was a lead story on our news channel tonight , measuring the number of patients who returned to their hospital after treatment for infections that they got while in the hospital before their release . -RRB- Those are the bare bones of what the effects are supposed to be . How it will actually play out is anyone 's guess . Thanks for asking !
Though many will claim Obamacare , which is designed to cover non-Medicare beneficaries , does not have any effect on Medicare , such a statement would be false . There are many provisions in the Affordable Care Act that call for funding reductions in the Medicare payment system , including a provision , including the following : * Medicare Funding Cuts of $ 457 Billion by 2020 . Approximately 50 % of cuts are proposed to come from Medicare providers in the form of reduced reimbursement rates . These cuts are expected to offset 30 % of the cost of reform for those under 65 . * Fewer Providers expected to be available 96 % of Providers in US Accept Medicare 80 % Accept New Medicare Patients -LRB- 60 % in Texas -RRB- Medicare Enrollment Growing by 10,000 people per day 28 % of New Medicare Recipients Has Trouble Finding A New Primary Care Doctor in 2012 30 % Proposed Reimbursements Reductions will lead to even fewer doctors accepting Medicare More Providers Opting-out of Medicare System -LRB- including the Mayo Clinic -RRB- Fewer Doctors + More Patients = Longer Wait Times * Medicare Advantage Funding Cuts $ 135 Billion through 2019 , including $ 7 Billion this year 2014 , . This has already lead totewer Plan Choices , Reduction in Benefits andHigher Premiums for many . * Tax Increases 3.8 % Additional Medicare Tax on High Earners 3.8 % Tax Increase on Investment Income 2.3 % New Tax on Medical Devices $ 72 Billion in New Taxes to Insurance Companies These taxes that will eventually by passed on to consumers in form of higher prices ! * Closing the Donut Hole * 50 % discount on brand name drugs * 7 % discount on generics * Consumer Rebates for Reaching Gap * By 2020 , the Donut Hole will be replaced with 25 % cost sharing on all medications * 3.4 million Americans Will No Longer Fall in to the Donut Hole Each Year * 27.5 million Americans that Never Reach the Donut Hole Will Pay More for Their Drugs * More Free Preventative Care Services are now availablerventions for tobacco users * Creation of Accountable Care Organizations and Independent Advisory Board Accountable Care Organizations - places a degree of financial responsibility on the providers in hopes of improving care management and limiting unnecessary expenditures . ACOs that lower the cost of care for their members will by paid 50 % of the cost savings generated by the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services . Independent Advisory Board Goal of reducing the per capita rate when growth in Medicare spending exceeds targeted rate . Board will recommend changes that become a bill and sent to the President and Congress to pass . If not passed , Congress must provide a budget with equivalent funding cuts .
WE have seen in the data that Medicap is affected in a positive manor . Based on data when people have health insurance they get better care . The bill added many non cost preventative screenings . These screenings can only improve the patient . Small a person contacts shingles and gets very ill has to seek medical help . Under obama care the preventative shot is free cutting down the people who get shingles . This helps Medigap cost , since many insurers of Medigap are also Medical health insurers
Medicare cuts hurt everyone , patients and providers alike . When Congress reduces funding for Medicare that means you have fewer choices , are expected to pay higher premiums , copay 's , deductibles and out of pocket . Congress also seeks to limit the amount they pay providers for services rendered . When this happens fewer doctors will take on new patients and stretch out the time between appointments .
Medicare Part C , also called Medicare Advantage is a product that was developed originally back in the 90 's -LRB- called Medicare + Choice -RRB- to help cut costs for Medicare . It was overhauled in 2003 to the product that now exists . Medicare Advantage plans combine the benefits of Medicare Part A and Part B into a single program operated by a private insurance company . The funds for this program come from Part A and B premiums and often an additional premium from the patient . It is structured like most commercial plans with a copay or coinsurance for different types of visits , a maximum out of pocket expense , etc. . . Some plans do not have prescription benefits . These are called MA plans . Others , MAPD plans , have a prescription plan built in . Talk to a local insurance agent to find out if Medicare Part C is the best option for you .
Obamacare will impact Medicare by reducing the expected rate in growth on Medicare spending by approximately $ 700 billion over the next 10 years and using those savings to help fund Obamacare . It is important to note that I used the term reduced expected rate in growth as this figure has been characterized or oversimplified by some politicians as a $ 700 billion dollar cut in Medicare . These are not the same thing . With that clarification in terminology stated , with the oldest of theBaby Boomer generation already entering their Medicare years the number of people covered under Medicare will increase substantially in coming years at the same time that spending levels on Medicare are being bent down significantly . An increased number ofenrollees from a population that has grown accustomed to getting whatever healthcare they wanted whenever they wanted it at a time when the funding for this increased demand is being deflected downward from previous levels will be problematic to put it politely . Medicare reimbursement levels to health care providers will be further decreased and reimbursement models and approaches are already being changed . Finding physicians who want to accept new Medicare patients has been a growing issue for several years now and this trend has to be expected to increase . First , we have a shrinking supply of physicians to meet this growing demand and treating the Medicare population , which by virtue of their age are higher consumers of health care services , at reimbursement levels that often do n't cover the costs of services rendered are and will force healthcare providers to make some difficult business decisions . The implications for the quality of care and access to care for senior citizens are very serious and I expect this will be a source of much lively political debate in the coming years .
That is a great question . The answer is yes , if our government does n't do something about it very soon . The Affordable care Act -LRB- Obamacare -RRB- made cuts in the overhead costs , added fines for medical providers who had bad rates of returning patients , and increased the fraud departments , and these cuts were supposed to extend the life of Medicare/Medicaid another 5 years or so . I believe the last estimate was to mid 2020 's . But with nearly 10,000 Seniors turning 65 every day and the workforce not paying enough into the fund to cover expenses , it 's anyone 's guess if it makes it that far . And as a quick bit of trivia , Social Security is projected to go belly up just shy of 5 years later , a move that some economists say will increase the poverty rate in America by nearly 500 % . That 's scary stuff , when you realize that 55 % of Senior Citizens already live at or below poverty levels -LRB- 2012 Census data -RRB- . Thanks for asking !
No doctors can not be forced to accept Medicare . Any doctor can choose whether or not to accept Medicare assignment . To do so however could have a big economic impact on their bottom line . Considering the number of people aging in to Medicare , refusing Medicare patients could be cutting their own throats .
While there may be some doctors opting out of the Medicare system , I do not see this as a major concern . Too many doctors have a large percentage of there revenue come from Medicare patients . The concern among doctors is the cuts that Medicare has made , but I do not see a mass exodus from the system .
I think this question depends on who you ask , as this is a politically charged question . As far as I can tell , $ 716 billion was cut from the Medicare Advantage Program . TheObama administration claims the was nota cut , because they were going to reduce payments for hospital services , skilled nursing services , hospice and other Medicare services . Of course , that was met with a lot ofnegative feedback on both sides of the aisle soit 's unclearif those cuts are actually going to take place . But if the cuts do n't take place , how would the $ 716 billion bepaidback into the Medicare fund?To some extent , the jury is still out on this one .
That is a great question ! I 'll answer it in two parts . It is very effective for you , especially if you have combined it with a Medigap plan . The Part D can make a world of difference in affordability of your prescriptions . That said , the other part of the answer ? There are several parts of the program that are slated for cuts under the Affordable Care Act -LRB- Obamacare -RRB- that will not affect anyone 's coverage or benefits , but are designed to pare some administrative excesses . These cuts are to be reinvested into the system , and if done to plan , should extend the Medicare trust fund through 2029 . There was a lot of pork and fraud in the system , because it was not policed very much , or very well . Thank you for asking !
when asked of the expected impact on a practice of the exchanges , 40.5 percent of more than 1,000 surveyed practices said unfavorable and another 15 percent picked very unfavorable . Only 16 percent thought the exchanges would be favorable or very favorable to practices and about 28 percent thought the affect will be neutral . MGMA conducted the online survey in September 2013 with responding practices representing more than 47,500 physicians . Only 29 percent of responding practices plan to participate in exchanges ; another 40 percent are evaluating participation . Those looking to participate cite remaining competitive in the local market , replacing some of the charity care as uninsured patients get coverage and providing care to underserved populations as the primary reasons . Those practices not participating are significantly worried about five issues arising from insurance exchanges : administrative and regulatory burdens -LRB- 64 percent -RRB- , collecting payments because of patient financial burdens such as high deductibles -LRB- 62 percent -RRB- , low reimbursement rates that pose a financial risk to the practice -LRB- 59 percent -RRB- , concerns of assuming financial liability during a 90-day grace period for enrollees -LRB- 59 percent -RRB- , and uncertainty and confusion about exchange products -LRB- 53 percent -RRB- . That worry extends to practices evaluating exchanges as well , with more than 80 percent citing low reimbursement rates , liability during a grace period and patient financial burdens as major barriers to participation . Most surveyed practices that received patient rate information from exchange insurers found the reimbursement rates of commercial insurers to be somewhat to much lower than they currently receive , with traditional Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement through exchanges also considerably lower . Full survey results - WEBSITELINK
If you do not have health insurance , I suggest you attempt to negotiate with your doctor early during your pregnancy . You will find many doctors are actually willing to charge less for patients that self-pay using cash , as it cuts their expenses in not having to invoice and follow up with an insurance company to receive their payment . You may also want to contact your state 's Medicaid office to see if you qualify for Medicaid , which is available at no charge to pregnant women in most states .
ObamaCare currently has no impact on Medigap policies that would be obvious to the senior consumer as being directly attributable to ObamaCare . It does n't phase them out or end them and they are n't subject to the more direct attacks this administration has made on Medicare Advantage plans . The effects of ObamaCare on the Medicare population will be more subtle . Even before ObamaCare was passed , Medicare reimbursement rates were at levels where growing numbers of physicians were making business decisions to limit the number of Medicare patients they would take in their practice , freeze their number of Medicare patients at current levels , or stopping accepting Medicare patients entirely . While going through all the legislative and budgetary gyrations that resulted in the passage of ObamaCare in 2010 the administration deemed it critical that the projected 10-year cost projections of the law come in under 1 trillion dollars . Why ? Because that was approximately what we had spent on the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan and the argument was that if we could afford to spend that much on wars then surely we could afford to spend that much on providing health insurance . An important aspect of how this was accomplished from a budgetary perspective was that the law transfers future funds from the Medicare trust funds to pay for various aspects of ObamaCare . It was projected that these transfers would reduce the future increases in spending on Medicare over the coming decade by about $ 700 billion . In Washington speak this means that we 'll still be spending more on Medicare -LRB- which with our growing Medicare population is only logical -RRB- but we 'll be reducing reimbursement levels to doctors , hospitals , etc. , by $ 700 billion less than would have otherwise been the case . From studies I have seen , this will begin taking Medicare reimbursement levels below those of Medicaid in the not too distant future . So , if many healthcare providers were barely breaking even or losing money on Medicare patients at the old reimbursement levels it does n't take much imagination to guess what their reaction will be to even lower reimbursement levels in the years to come . So , the main challenge many senior citizens on Medicare will be faced with in coming years that is severely aggravated by ObamaCare will be finding healthcare providers who are willing to accept them .
They work very well . They work similar to group health insurance that many people have through their employers . The insured pays very little premium because most of the premium is paid by Medicare . You have a network of doctors and hospitals you can go to with usually an HMO network or a PPO network . The HMO is a more restrictive type of network . The insured will pay co-pays and sometimes deductibles . You will have a maximum out of pocket limit which you do not have with traditional Medicare -LRB- unless you supplement Medicare with a Medigap plan . -RRB- The worst thing about the Medicare Advantage Plans is they are very political . They were brought out during the George W. Bush years and the current administration has stated in several interviews that they would like to end them . However their base of senior voters would not make that easy for them to pull off . Quite a bit of the government funding for Medicare Advantage is scheduled to be cut as part of the Affordable Care Act . That could have a bad affect on the program in future years .
Like original Medicare ultimately is financed through your taxes . Medicare pays private insurance companies a set amount per enrollee to administer the claims . The company can then take that money and develope their plan whithin guidelines set by Medicare . If the company is able to provide the benefits with the money provided by Medicare , then you may not have to pay an additional premium other than your normal Medicare Part B premium . If the benefits are more than Medicare allowance allows for then some plans charge an extra premium in addition to what Medicare provides . This is where the danger comes in when you hear about Medicare cutting funds to Medicare Advantage . Right now there are some very good zero premium plans available . These may be forced to go away if cuts are allowed to continue .
Social Security is affected by income you receive during retirement . There are ways to maximize your retirement income looking at when to draw on your Social Security versus using your 401 -LRB- k -RRB- . What really comes into question is how is the taxation of your retirement funds going to cut into your potential income . Working with a professional who has specific knowledge in the Social Security Income system is a must . First I would recommend going to the Social Security website , set up a free account for yourself , and see what your estimated benefit is going to be . From there you can plan the best way to start using your retirement monies , keeping the tax liability to a minimum and to maximize the potential income you have available .
According to Heritage.org , Obamacare cuts $ 716 billion from Medicare from 2013 - 2022 . Most of the cuts come in the form of reduced payment for hospital services -LRB- $ 260 billion -RRB- , reduced funding for Medicare Advantage -LRB- $ 156 billion -RRB- and reduced payment to charity hospitals -LRB- $ 145 billion -RRB- . All of these cuts combined mean limited access to medical providers , fewer Advantage choices , higher Part D premiums and higher Part D out of pocket .
end question
start question
life-insurance
How Much Are Life Insurance Rates ?
Life insurance rates will vary widely depending on several factors : age , gender , amount of coverage , length of coverage and health rating . There are different types of policies depending on your needs , such as term insurance , whole life and universal life . Rates may range from a few dollars a month to thousands per month depending on your situation and what you want to accomplish with insurance . Discuss your situation with a knowledgeable independent advisor who can help you navigate the many options .
There are two sets of rates for the cost of insurance : current company practice and contractual guarantees . Contractual guarantees hedge the current company pricing practices in case they miscalculate their assumptions . Both of those sets of rates are dependent upon the life insurance companys actuarial assessment of life expectancy and their profitability targets . Life expectancy is based on gender , age , health condition and lifestyle behaviors like motor vehicle violations , recreational activities and hazardous vocations .
Life insurance rates are determined by several factors , such as your age , sex , and health status . What you first need to decide is which type of life insurance works the best for you . Some of the most common options are : Whole life , Term life , and Universal life . Rates will also vary based on which insurance company you decide to go with . I recommend getting a life policy with a company that you know and trust , since you will probably be keeping the policy for several years .
Life insurance rates are calculated as a certain cost per thousand dollars of life insurance . E.g. . If the factor is $ 1.00 per thousand , a person could get $ 100,000 of life insurance for $ 500 per year , plus an annual fee . The cost per thousand varies greatly between smokers and nonsmokers , young and old , short terms and long terms , and the health rating for which the applicant qualifies .
The cost of life insurance can range from a few dollars per month to many thousands per month . The real question is how much would it cost you to get the proper policy for your situation . In order to find that out you need to first determine how much death benefit you need . The best way to calculate how much life insurance you need is by doing a comprehensive needs analysis . If you are looking for a quick rule-of-thumb , we recommend you carry at least ten times your annual income in life insurance . The second factor is how long do you think you will need the coverage . You might want life insurance to cover your mortgage which will be paid off in a certain period of time , or you might want life insurance just until your children are grown and self supporting . Maybe you want to have life insurance for whenever you die , be it next year or when you 're 90 . The third key factor is your budget . You might like the idea of a large permanent life insurance policy , but the premium may simply be more than you can reasonably afford . So in order to determine how much life insurance costs per month , you need to figure out how much life insurance you need , how long you need it and what your budget allows . By going through this process you can determine how much the proper life insurance policy for you will cost .
That 's a great question , first the retirement planner should be able to walk you through the 4 phases . 1 . Contribution 2 . Accumulation 3 . distribution 4 . transfer . Each phase is critical for you financial future . Here are some questions they should ask you , What age do you see yourself retiring example - -LRB- current age 30 , retirement age 65 -RRB- , that gives you 35 years until you retire . Next is how much money do you think you need when you retire example -LRB- you need 30,000 income -RRB- . How much money do you need to save to receive $ 30,000 a year ? Example -LRB- $ 1,000,000 saved with a 3 % withdrawal will give you your $ 30,000 -RRB- Now how much money will you have to save to have $ 1,000,000 saved in 35 years . How much of a rate of return will you earn on your money and how will it compound to in 35 years . You also have to factor in taxes , inflation , rate of return , and how much debt you accumulate . This should give you a start in finding a great adviser like our company .
This varies for each person . A lot of variables go into the calculation of determining how much life insurance you need , how long you need it , and what is an appropriate amount to actually secure . A life insurance calculator can help with this . A few things to get you started when calculating out what you need and how long you need it for are : 1 -RRB- Do you have a mortgage ? If so , how much is left on it and how many more years do you have to go until it 's paid off ? 2 -RRB- Any final expenses you want paid off -LRB- e.g. burial expenses , credit card debt , medical bills -RRB- ? 3 -RRB- Education expenses for you or a family member you want to pay off -LRB- such as college tuition -RRB- 4 -RRB- Income replacement - this is a big one ! A question to think about here is how much income would be needed if you died today and how long would your family need it to maintain their current lifestyle . An experienced life insurance broker can help you with this and make it a much smoother , easier process . I hope the information is helpful - please feel free to contact me for help and if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
This varies for each person . A lot of variables go into the calculation of determining how much life insurance you need , how long you need it , and what is an appropriate amount to actually secure . A life insurance calculator can help with this . A few things to get you started when calculating out what you need and how long you need it for are : 1 -RRB- Do you have a mortgage ? If so , how much is left on it and how many more years do you have to go until it 's paid off ? 2 -RRB- Any final expenses you want paid off -LRB- e.g. burial expenses , credit card debt , medical bills -RRB- ? 3 -RRB- Education expenses for you or a family member you want to pay off -LRB- such as college tuition -RRB- 4 -RRB- Income replacement - this is a big one ! A question to think about here is how much income would be needed if you died today and how long would your family need it to maintain their current lifestyle . An experienced life insurance broker can help you with this and make it a much smoother , easier process . One thing to also note , a lot of people think `` once i 'm retired , I wo n't need life insurance anymore so I can just buy term insurance and let it go when I retire '' - there are many many many reasons why you should have life insurance during your retirement years . For example , if you 're receiving a retirement pension and you die , the pension income may stop and not continue onto your spouse -LRB- if you chose the pension max option over the survivorship option when you started receiving benefits -RRB- - this can also apply to social security income . That 's just one scenario . Please feel free to contact me for help and if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
There is no set guideline to how much you should pay for Term Life Insurance . There are general guidelines . E.g. . If you take a 10 year term policy , you should pay less than you would pay for a 30 year term policy . If the rates are similar you are much better off locking that rate in for 30 years . Another general guideline would be , if you can get a permanent policy for a price just slightly higher than term , take the permanent policy . Sometimes Universal Life rates run close to Term rates at older ages , especially if the UL rates are locked in to age 90 or 95 . Universal Life is much more flexible than Term , so if you can get it for a similar price , go for it . Aside from generalities , no one can predict how much you should pay for a term life insurance policy because life insurance rates are based on your age , sex , tobacco status , and health . You can check out an instant quote engine on internet websites to get an idea of what term rates might run for you . But you need to call the agency to get a more accurate rate .
Asking how much renters insurance is with State Farm is like asking how much is a TV at Best Buy ? What size , what model and so on . How much renters insurance premiums are depend on how much personal property coverage , personal liability limits and medical not to mention your past insurance history and location which all play into the rates of renters insurance . This would be true of all insurance companies .
This varies for each person . A lot of variables go into the calculation of determining how much life insurance you need , how long you need it , and what is an appropriate amount to actually secure . A life insurance calculator can help with this . A few things to get you started when calculating out what you need and how long you need it for are : 1 -RRB- Do you have a mortgage ? If so , how much is left on it and how many more years do you have to go until it 's paid off ? 2 -RRB- Any final expenses you want paid off -LRB- e.g. burial expenses , credit card debt , medical bills -RRB- ? 3 -RRB- Education expenses for you or a family member you want to pay off -LRB- such as college tuition -RRB- 4 -RRB- Income replacement - this is a big one ! A question to think about here is how much income would be needed if you died today and how long would your family need it to maintain their current lifestyle . An insurance agent/broker can help you with this and make it a much smoother , easier process . One thing to also note , a lot of people think `` once i 'm retired , I wo n't need life insurance anymore so I can just buy term insurance and let it go when I retire '' - there are many many many reasons why you should have life insurance during your retirement years . For example , if you 're receiving a retirement pension and you die , the pension income may stop and not continue onto your spouse -LRB- if you chose the pension max option over the survivorship option when you started receiving benefits -RRB- - this can also apply to social security income . That 's just one scenario .
There is no magic way to determining how much insurance you need . A method you can use for determining how much life insurance coverage you need is to do a simple needs analysis : 1 . Income - How much income do you want to give your family and for how long if you died ? 2 . Education - Do you want to fund your children 's education ? 3 . Debt - Do you want to pay of any debt -LRB- car loan , mortgage , credit cards -RRB- if you died ? Add those three things together and you will have a good idea of how much you would need .
Great question there are several way 's to determine how much coverage you need example : you could count how many pieces of clothing you own and determine how much each piece cost you when you purchased the item like a pair of jeans $ 100 times the number you own , how much did you pay for your TV -LRB- S -RRB- , if you own the appliances and your furniture . Most people do n't realize how much they have invested in every day household items it is good idea to keep track of your purchases especially big ticket items . A good independent agent can help you determine the right amount of coverage for your needs also is good idea to video your Home/Apartment and catalog serial numbers and save receipt 's .
There really is n't a right answer for this , there is only your answer for you . There are numerous software programs that you can plug into and it will spit out a number and you can choose to follow that program . Is it correct or exact ? Unfortunately the anwer is yes , no or maybe depending on the individual . I tend to individualize my approach to `` how much life insurance I need ? '' when thinking about how much coverage to get . The first or base level of coverage I consider is simply this `` if I did n't wake up tomorrow , how much money would put things at $ 0 . ? '' This is my starting point or minimum level of coverage I would consider . From there , I would start adding based on answers to questions posed like ; Does my spouse work ? Would extra money help in a transition to work ? How old are my children ? Do I want to have something for college set aside for them ? Who can do for my family what I can do if something breaks and I 'm not there ? What would that cost ? If the main person who does the childcare passes , how much would I need to help with that cost ? You can look at your own situation and bring different questions and costs to the mix too ! Then much like the purchase of lumber for a project you figure the amount plus 10 % extra for just in case . This may be why some just say 5X income or 10X income as answers . The assumption is all those questions would be answered and then some . The big thing is do n't let what ever number you come up with discourage you from getting life insurance . Some is always , always better than none .
All Medigap plans feature standardized benefits , meaning a plan F from company ABC features the exact same benefits as a plan F from company XYZ . The major factor to look at is the price - how much you are paying each month for your Medigap coverage . It 's how carriers differentiate themselves from each other . Another factor to consider is the rating method the carrier uses . Most carriers will use the attained age rating method -LRB- your rates increase each year as you get older -RRB- because it generally offers the lowest rates initially -LRB- you can end up paying more than other options if you keep the plan for many years -RRB- . Community rating means that everyone in a given area pays the exact same rates regardless of their age -LRB- an 85 year old pays the same rates as a 75 year old -RRB- - the price can be a little higher up front , but provides great savings in the long term . The third rating method is issue-age rated -LRB- the rates will only be based on your age when it was first placed in force -RRB- - this is typically the most expensive coverage . I hope the information is helpful - please feel free to contact me for assistance with your Medigap coverage and if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
All Medigap plans feature standardized benefits , meaning a plan F from company ABC features the exact same benefits as a plan F from company XYZ . So you have the exact same coverage regardless of which company the plan is through . The major factor to look at is the price - how much you are paying each month for your Medigap coverage . It 's how carriers differentiate themselves from each other . Another factor to consider is the rating method the carrier uses . Most carriers will use the attained age rating method -LRB- your rates increase each year as you get older -RRB- because it generally offers the lowest rates initially -LRB- you can end up paying more than other options if you keep the plan for many years -RRB- . Community rating means that everyone in a given area pays the exact same rates regardless of their age -LRB- an 85 year old pays the same rates as a 75 year old -RRB- - the price can be a little higher up front , but provides great savings in the long term . The third rating method is issue-age rated -LRB- the rates will only be based on your age when it was first placed in force -RRB- - this is typically the most expensive coverage . I hope the information is helpful - please feel free to contact me for assistance with your Medigap coverage and if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
If the only conversion option your policy offers is Whole Life , the rate is probably going to be quite a bit higher than if you take out a new , no lapse , Universal Life policy . However , when you convert Term Life , you are rated the same on your Whole Life that you were rated on your Term policy . So if your health has declined , you may be getting a good deal by converting . If it has not declined , I personally would check out a new policy to see how much you can save . As to when to convert , it depends on several factors . 1 . HOW MUCH you want to convert . If you want to convert it all , it may be a good idea to do it now , while rates are lower . They will go up quite a bit over the next 10 years . 2 . YOUR HEALTH . If you have very poor health , you may just want to pay those low Term rates another 10 years . If you have excellent health , it might be a good time to convert or look at what else you can get in a permanent policy . 3 . WILL YOU NEED LIFE INSURANCE after age 60 ? By the time you are 60 you should have a good idea of whether you will need that much coverage . You have some time to get a feel for how your retirement is going to pan out before you make this big decision . You can not reverse it and go back to Term , once you have converted your policy . Please feel free to contact me to help you ascertain what prices are out there for you , or help you figure out what direction to go . Best wishes .
A Personal Auto Policy -LRB- PAP -RRB- generally comes with five coverages included in the premium . 1 . Auto Liability ... protects you from claims other people make against you arising from auto accidents 2 . Uninsured/Underinsured Motorists Liability -LRB- UIM -RRB- ... protects you for claims you make against other drivers who do not have insurance or do not have enough insurance 3 . Medical Payments ... pays money to doctors and hospitals for your medical expenses arising out of auto accidents 4 . Collision ... pays for damage to your car arising out of auto accidents where you collide with another car or object , like a tree . 5 . Comprehensive ... pays for damage to your car arising out accidents that are other than collision , for example , flood , fire and theft . When you ask , `` How Much Auto Insurance Do I Need ? '' , I 'm assuming you mean # 1 , Auto Liability so I 'll limit my answer to that coverage . In subsequent postings , I 'll answer how much you need for the other coverages . So , how much Auto Liability Insurance do you need ? It depends . If you just want to get on the road and be legal about it , in New Jersey , the minimum limit of insurance is $ 35,000 for each accident . You are also required to purchase Uninsured/Underinsured Motorists Liability and Medical Payments and they also have minimum limit requirements . Other states have similar minimum limit requirements and they are spelled out at each state 's insurance department website . Minimum limit policies will get you on the road , but they are not a smart use of your dollars . Consider an auto accident where you strike a Lawyer 's Mercedes ... his new Mercedes . Think $ 35,000 will take care of everything ? I would n't bet on it . And if $ 35,000 is not enough , you 'll pay personally for a long time . Now , if your primary goal is adequate protection for you , your family and your assets , you need to take a step back . Liability claims against you arising out of the use of an auto is one area you should be concerned about . You should also be concerned about liability claims arising out of owning a home , operating a boat or a motorcycle or an RV . Liability claims can also arise from owning vacation property . You can trigger a claim . Your spouse can trigger a claim and your children can trigger a claim . Considering all the people in your life who can trigger a claim and all the ways they can do it , How much is enough liability insurance ? How much should you buy ? Answer : I do n't know . But I do know EVERY smart insurance consumer , concerned about `` how much insurance is enough ? '' should purchase a $ 1 million Personal Umbrella Policy . A Personal Umbrella Policy is a secondary policy . Your auto policy , homeowner policy , boat policy , and so on are all primary policies . Each primary policy has its own limit of insurance . In the event of an accident -LRB- in the home , in the car or on the water -RRB- , you have a primary policy to protect you . If the amount of primary insurance is not enough to pay a claim , the Personal Umbrella policy adds a million dollar cushion . Is a Personal Umbrella policy expensive ? No . A million dollar umbrella GENERALLY starts around $ 125 . That 's $ 125 for $ 1,000,000 of liability protection you can use over your auto insurance or your homeowner insurance or your boat insurance and so on and so on . If there is a better deal in the insurance business , I 'm not aware of it . Now if you 're sold on the idea that a Personal Umbrella Policy has merit , we need to return to your original question : `` How much Auto Liability Insurance do I need ? '' You need an amount of insurance that satisfies the minimum requirements of the Personal Umbrella Policy . For example , if your Personal Umbrella Policy requires you have a $ 300,000 Personal Auto Liability Limit , that 's what you need to buy for your auto policy . If the requirement is $ 300,000 and you have $ 250,000 , there will be a $ 50,000 gap in the event of a serious claim . Again , for example , you 're responsible for a serious auto accident . It ends up costing $ 600,000 . Your auto policy will pay $ 250,000 , you 'll have to pay $ 50,000 and then the umbrella will pay the remaining $ 300,000 . So you can see , you need to buy the correct amount of auto and home insurance and the correct amount for any other primary policy so you do n't have a gap in coverage . Can you buy a Personal Umbrella Policy with a limit higher than $ 1 million ? You can , but the higher the limit , the greater the scrutiny . I hope I 've answered your question , but if I have n't , feel free to call , fax or email me .
That really depends on your current situation . Are you married ? Do you have children ? A mortgage ? Do you support your parents ? If you were n't around any more , how difficult would it be for your family to survive ? One way to look at how much life insurance to get is to figure out how much of your income your family needs each month -LRB- include things that you do that they may now have to hire people for -RRB- and how long they will need it . -LRB- For instance until your kids are through school -RRB- . That is how much life insurance you need .
Some agents may say that 5 % -LRB- or maybe 7 % and even up to 10 % -RRB- of your annual earnings should be allocated toward life insurance premiums . This is dependent on individual circumstances and one of the first things you need to identify when looking for individual life insurance . In figuring out your life insurance needs , you should determine how much life insurance death benefit your beneficiaries will require . Then shop and compare quotes to get an idea of how much that amount life insurance coverage will be . Budgeting and planning for how much you want to allocate toward life insurance is important . To manage your life insurance policies efficiently reassess your need for life insurance every two to three years .
end question
start question
life-insurance
How Does Life Insurance Test For Smoking ?
That is a great question ! In the case of you purchasing a policy for a larger face value , the insurance company will send out a para-med who will take samples or swabs from you to test for the markers of nicotine use . In the case of a smaller face value policy , there will be a question on your application , and then subsequent ones relating to smoking related diseases . If at some point the company has reason to believe that your answers during the application process are less than truthful , they may elect to deny or delay your payment on those grounds . The best thing to do is quit smoking , or find a company that is lenient with their tobacco rules , or one that does n't ask at all . They exist , and a good agent can find one for you . I hope that helps , thanks for asking !
When you take an exam for a life insurance policy , one of the common tests they conduct is a urine test . Each company tests for a set of markers -LRB- the exact markers may vary by carrier -RRB- , but each of them check for nicotine - the presence of nicotine indicates to the carrier the use of tobacco products . The type of tobacco product being used does matter though - a couple of carriers will offer a non-smoker rate -LRB- saving you thousands of dollars over the life of a policy , regardless of term or permanent insurance -RRB- if you only use cigars or chewing tobacco -LRB- some smokeless tobacco -RRB- , and not cigarettes . Prudential is known as somewhat of a `` go to '' company in the agent circles for people who only use the aforementioned types of tobacco . Cigarettes are considered smoker status across the board for underwriting purposes . Please note , when completing an application -LRB- even for a non-medical product -RRB- and falsify information -LRB- e.g. saying you do n't smoke and it 's discovered that you do -RRB- , the carrier can rescind the policy - it 's important to be honest with the carrier so you do n't run the risk of losing your coverage . Most carriers will require at least a 12 month period from the point of the last use of tobacco before considering non-smoker risk classes .
Cotinine is a metabolite of nicotine that is found in blood and urine of tobacco users . Life Insurance companies test for smoking by checking for the presence of cotinine in blood and urine samples taken at the paramed exam . They will back up these tests with questions on the application , phone interview -LRB- if one is conducted -RRB- and medical records -LRB- if an APS is ordered -RRB- .
When purchasing an underwrittenlife insurance policy , the underwriters will order a paramed exam . A paramed or nurse will come to you take the health history part of the application . They usually will require a urine sample and blood sample along with height/weight , blood pressure , etc. . The urine is tested for nicotine . A person should be away from smoking , dipping , patches gumor chewing tobacco for an extended period of time to avoid a smokers rating on their life insurance .
Yes , life insurance does test for the byproduct of nicotine , called cotinine , in the urine and/or blood that is tested for a life insurance exam . Cotinine is a more reliable indicator of actually smoking a cigarette than nicotine is , as sometimes nicotine tests can detect second hand smoke . With tobacco such as cigar or pipe , a very few companies will disregard cotinine in the blood or urine as long as it it disclosed on the application and there has been no cigarette usage in the past few years . Other than that , the insured person who tests positive for nicotine/cotinine will be rated as a Smoker .
It is amazing how a life insurance company can find out you smoke . They test urine and blood for cotinine/nicotine , if you take an exam . They usually do a phone interview if you do n't take an exam , so you have to state your smoking status both in writing and verbally . They may order medical records . I once had a client who turned out to be rated a smoker , and when I asked him about it , he said he did n't think there was any way the insurance company would find out because he did n't smoke for a month before the exam and even his doctor did not know he was a smoker . It turned out his wife had told his doctor he smoked ! He may have been able to contest that by taking a new exam , but he , of course , was back to smoking by then . If you smoke , just admit it . If you quit smoking later , you can apply for a rate reduction a year after smoking .
Yes , indeed . Here is a sure fire way to get denied life insurance for smoking pot : Smoke it . Dont disclose this on your application . Then test positive on your insurance exam for marijuana . You will notice that the key to your downfall here is not disclosing it on your application . Trying to pull a fast one on the underwriter is a great way to get denied . And by the way : dont think about not disclosing it on your application , and then waiting a long time so it wont show up in your lab specimen . Thats insurance fraud . Not a good way to start a relationship with a life insurance carrier . Now you are going to ask , What if I do disclose it ? Will I get accepted ? Not only might you get accepted , but if you apply with the right company , you could get approved at preferred non-smoker rates ! How do you like that ? It all depends on the amount and frequency used . And you have to apply with a company who has very lenient underwriting guidelines for pot smokers . Some do ; a lot dont . But there is more to the story here . If you smoke cigarettes as well as pot , you will end up with a smoker rating . Dont forget that . Another item : many people smoke marijuana as a form of self-medication . They have trouble sleeping , so they smoke pot . They feel anxious , so they smoke pot . They feel a little depressed , so they smoke pot . If you have a history of dealing with these issues , then the underwriter will look a bit more closely at your marijuana use . If it appears that you do have medical concerns that are not being addressed adequately with medical treatment , he may not be confident that your pot smoking is purely recreational . That may affect his willingness to make an offer , and if he does so , at a low rate . By the way : I have helped people get policies who intake marijuana through a vaporizer , as opposed to smoking it . That can add an additional complication to underwriting . Some underwriters feel that is a more intense form of ingestion and has a more severe impact on your body . Something else for you to think about : any brushes with the law in relation to your marijuana use must be disclosed on your application . Remember that your legal record is part and parcel of the underwriting process . Lots to think about here , Makes you want to light up , doesnt it ?
Through a urine specimen . They are pretty reliable . Interestingly , I once had a client who admitted to smoking on the application , but tested negative for nicotine on the urine sample . He was approved at non-smoker rates ! People often ask if secondhand smoke shows up . The answer is yes , it can . If you inhabit a very smoky environment day in and day out , and your body has pretty much reached its saturation point for nicotine , it very well could show up on your test . This is important to know . Sometimes people ask , what if I dont admit to smoking on the application , and wait a while after my last cigarette so that I test negative ? Well , if the application asks you if you have smoked in the last 12 months and you say no , that is insurance fraud . If they audit your claim and find out you lied , they can deny the benefit even if you died for a reason unrelated to cigarettes . A word to the wise should be sufficient .
Life insurance companies are not mind readers , but they do their very best to find out if you smoke . If you have a blood test , urine test , or swab , the presence of nicotine will show up in all those tests . If you have ever taken Chantix or other drugs to help you quit smoking , they will see that on your pharmacy record . If your medical records show that you smoke and you have a health condition that causes underwriters to order your medical records , the insurance company will take the word of what is written in your medical records .
Each life insurance company is likely to perform a blood test before issuing life insurance . Certainly for any amount over 100k . That blood test will detect nicotine in the system for the past several months . If you say you never smoked , the test will not go back that far , but other records will and they may check those . Lying to a carrier will result in termination for material fraud , although that may only go back two years from the application in most cases . Even vapor smokes now in use , are testable and show nicotine . Had a client have his rates increased due to smoking vapors . Be honest and find a company you can trust . Thank you . GARY LANE .
Yes , indeed they do . And the test is pretty reliable . Want to hear an interesting story ? A number of years ago I took an application from a client who disclosed that he did smoke cigarettes on a daily basis . So I quoted him smoker rates . He provided the lab specimens for the insurance exam and we all assumed they would show he was indeed a smoker . When the results came back , he had tested negative for nicotine even though he smoked every day ! Our assumption was he had a huge tolerance and it just didnt register in the lab . So , fair being fair , the underwriter gave him non-smoker rates ! And he paid about half as much as he would have as a smoker . Of course , smokers cant count on that always happening . They should expect to pay smoker rates . And most smokers hate paying that extra premium for that extra mortality risk . -LRB- And by the way - there is a huge amount of data to show that smoking does increase your mortality risk . Sorry . -RRB- So what should a smoker do ? Lie on the application ? I mean , who is really going to know if you say you dont smoke , and just go without cigarettes for a few weeks ? Your lab specimen should then come out clean , right ? Bad idea . Not good . Dont do it . That is insurance fraud , you know . You could jeopardize the claim getting paid . Besides which , this is not a game . Life insurance pricing has to accurately reflect the risk obligations taken on . If everybody scammed the system to get undercharged , then odds are the insurance carriers wouldnt have enough money to pay out benefit . Then everybodys beneficiaries would lose out . Not only that : there is something to be said for acting honorably , dont you think ? Your word should be your bond . What about postponing the purchase of the policy and waiting a year or two , so you can quit in the meantime and then qualify for non-smoker rates ? Well , okay , but who says youll be insurable at that point ? What if you come down with high blood pressure , high cholesterol , or high blood sugar , or any number of things that could throw the rates off ? Or even worse , make you ineligible for coverage at all ? Delaying is not worth the risk . Best thing to do is buy the policy now for the best smoker rates available . Keep it in force . Then , stop smoking . If you qualify for non-smoker rates , go for it . If you are eligible for a better rate , then good for you . But if you are not , then at least you have coverage . Either way , your beneficiaries will get what they need . Good move .
If there is any written medical record of your smoking , like your doctor 's chart notes for example , chances are it will be in the MIB records . When you apply for insurance , you grant permission for an insurance company to check your medical records and other history and they may come across it there . Most all companies , if you are looking for best price will also test for nicotine in your system as part of the exam process . Those companies that do n't test , just factor it into the price . So you pay like you do smoke in those cases or somewhere close to . One thing to keep in mind if you decide to miss the right answer when it comes to smoking is that some states refuse to let insurance companies settle a claim at a smoker rate . They have blocked insurance companies from paying the lesser claim and require the insurance company just to return premium . In the case of smoking , these states even waive the two year contestability window . Always check for any special state conditions when signing off on an application .
When applying for a policy that uses medical underwriting , most life insurance companies test for smoking through both a urine test and a blood test on samples collected during the life insurance exam . If you are purchasing a policy that does not require taking an exam , neither of these tests are done .
Some tips to prepare for your paramed exam start a couple of days prior to your exam . First try to schedule your exam early in the morning . It is best if you can fast , no food or water 12 hours prior to your exam . If that is just too long , at least fast 8 hours minimum for your best blood and urine results . Get a good nights sleep prior . You will test better when well rested and early morning is when your blood pressure will be the lowest as well as your weight . It is not a drastic change but sometimes a point or a pound can drop you to the next tier of ratings which leads to lower premiums . Experts recommend not doing any vigorous exercise 48 hours prior to your exam . If you work out regularly , go light for the 2 days leading up . Exercise can increase proteins , which can lead to false positives on your blood work . If you smoke , try to refrain before your test , as it can elevate your blood pressure . If you smoke an occasional cigar or pipe , you need to be 14 days clean in order to get the cotine out of your blood stream . A few life insurance carriers will give you nontobacco rates for occasional use , but you must test nicotine and cotine free to receive these rates . Underwriters test for cotine because it stays in your system 14 days longer than nicotine .
If you are applying for a policy that requires an exam , the life insurance company will check for smoking through a urine test and blood test . The byproduct of nicotine , called cotinine , shows up in those tests . Even if you are applying for a No Exam policy , the insurance company will look on your MIB to see if you have ever been rated a smoker when applying for insurance in the past . And you will be asked on the application whether you have used tobacco in the past year or longer . If you are currently smoking and say you are a nonsmoker , the policy could refuse to pay the claim if you passed within the first two years of obtaining the life insurance policy .
Yes , when you take an exam as part of the life insurance application process , the lab will test for the presence of cotinine in blood , urine and/or saliva . Cotinine is a metabolite of nicotine that lasts longer than nicotine so can be detected longer , and is a more accurate measure of smoking activity . If you take a policy that does not require a paramed exam , no such test will be done . The application usually asks if the applicant has used tobacco in the past year , and if the company orders medical records , they could find out about smoking that way .
Life insurance companies do test for THC , the chemical in the blood that is deposited after smoking or ingesting pot . If they find THC in the blood , they will ask you to fill out a drug questionnaire , and from there decide how to rate you . With some companies , infrequent marijuana use does not affect your rates much at all . If you are taking a policy that does not require an exam -LRB- called nonmed or no exam policies -RRB- they will not test for pot . They do usually ask about drug use on the application .
Fully underwritten life insurance requires blood and urine tests for a variety of medical items . Urine analysis can detect smoking behavior by testing for cotinine a byproduct of tobacco in cigarettes . Cigarette smoking can impact your life expectancy , so the life insurance company charges more because your life span is less based on the statistics of smokers .
In order to prepare for a life insurance health exam , there are a number of things to do and not do . You want your health exam to to be as good as it can be to in order to receive the best rates possible and avoid additional tests , Start with a good night 's sleep before the exam and do not do any heavy exercise for 24 hours before , You may be required to fast for 12 hours if a blood test is being done . Regardless avoid food and drink -LRB- except water -RRB- for 2 hours prior . Drinking water before the exam is a good idea to provide a urine specimen . Avoid caffeine for several hours and alcoholic beverages for at least 8 hours before the exam . If you smoke , avoid smoking for at least 1 hour before the exam . Continue taking any prescription medicines and bring them to the exam for reference . If you are taking over-the-counter medicines , try and avoid them for 24 hours prior to your exam . Inform the examiner if you do take one and why you did . Abnormal tests can result if you are ill or under stress at the time of the exam . If you are unable to reschedule , be sure and inform the examiner . If you have further questions , or feel that I could be of assistance , please do not hesitate to contact me . If you would like to work with a local life insurance broker , you could start with a Google search . For example , if you search for : life insurance broker Halifax or life insurance agent Halifax , my name , along with several others , will come up . You can use the same method to find a life insurance broker in your community .
Yes , a part of the testing is for nicotine in the system . Some carriers allow for different uses of nicotine products and do not cost as much for coverage as someone who smokes , but still cost more than non smoker rates . This topic is a hotbutton in insurance as the pricing for smoking is significantly greater than nonsmoker rates , the cost differences encourages some people to attempt to deceive on the application . Some states specifically `` waive '' the two year contestability clause in cases where mistatements about smoking are involved . In my state , they do n't even allow the insurance carrier to pay out the benefit at the smoker rate , just return the premiums . One good thing is if you do smoke and want to quit , you can depending on the company , get a nonsmoker rate after anywhere from 1 year to 3 years after quiting . If you decide to quit smoking , inform your doctor so there is a record on file of this decision and good luck .
end question
start question
home-insurance
Will Homeowners Insurance Cover Wet Basement ?
This depends on the cause . If water is seeping though the walls , it typically is not covered as that would be considered maintenance . If the water is due to flood , it would only be covered under a flood policy . If the damage was due to a busted pipe or water heater , it would normally be covered . Repairs for common damp basements are not covered by homeowners insurance .
This really depends on a few factors . First , was this a sudden and accidental occurrence or did it happen over time ? Secondly , did the water enter from outside your home or did it come from inside ? Lastly , do you have coverage for water/sewer backup ? Many companies will offer this as an option . If the water enters from outside your home , the insurance company will treat this the same as a flood , which will not be covered unless you have flood insurance . The only exception to this rule is if it backs up through your sewer or sump AND you have water/sewer backup coverage on your policy . This still must be sudden and accidental such as during a period of heavy rain . If the water is slowly seeping through the walls or floor , they will not cover this as it 's deemed a maintenance problem , not an occurrence . If the water comes from inside your home , such as a burst pipe , they will normally cover the damage it causes . Water claims have become very common and insurance companies are paying much more attention to them to make sure they should be covering them . Your homeowners policy is intended to protect you from the sudden and accidental . Many people seem to think that it 's an excuse to avoid maintaining their homes . To avoid any problems at claim time , be sure your home is maintained , it will cost you a lot less in the long run .
In general , no , home insurance will not cover wet rot . A homeowners policy is there to protect you from the sudden and accidental , not the ongoing . To file a claim , you have to be able to pinpoint what happened and when it happened . Wet rot describes a long time , ongoing circumstance . Your homeowners policy is designed to make you whole after an `` occurrence '' . It 's not designed to maintain your home . If you have a condition that could , potentially , damage your home , it 's the homeowners responsibility to correct that condition to protect your home from future damage . This brings up the question of the cost of your homeowners insurance . Every claim impacts the loss ratio of your company and , ultimately , your rates . Want to control the cost of your homeowners insurance ? Take a higher deductible and pay for the smaller things yourself . You 'll save money in the long run .
Homeowners Insurance in all States is designed to protect homes from covered perils which occur on a ` sudden and accidental basis ' . Termite damage does n't occur instantaneously ; it is something that deteriorates over time ; homes which are well maintained , inspected and treated against termites are highly unlikely to become infected or damaged . The same is true regarding dry rot , wet rot and slow and unrepaired water leaks . It is imperative for homes to be well maintained as homeowners insurance is not designed to provide monetary reimbursement for the ongoing upkeep and maintenance of homes ; if this were the case , premium would be much greater than what we pay today . Sudden and Accidental is true regarding any covered incident by the homeowners insurance policy ; covered perils will include for example items such as Fire , Wind , Hail , Water Damage , Burglary etc. . . Each of these items would occur suddenly and accidentally . There is a link providing an online format to obtain a quote and buy home insurance online in multiple States ; may be used by Escrow/Closing Professionals , Mortgage Professionals , Real Estate Agents and directly by Consumers . An exemplary online experience for all ! WEBSITELINK It would be a good idea to obtain a copy of your State 's Homeowners Insurance Form and ask a licensed insurance representative to review the policy form for you and highlight the paragraphs most pertinent to the specific situation . Homeowners insurance coverage forms are not often updated and it may only be necessary to review the main points once to understand the purpose of the policy and coverage afforded .
-- > Normal 0 Mold is a slow growing organism that forms on plants , food and other matter . You will find most property and liability insurance policies include an endorsement specifically limiting coverage for Fungi , Wet or Dry Rot or Bacteria . Mold damage used to be covered by property insurance policies , like homeowners policies , if it resulted from another covered loss . A few years ago , insurers slipped an exclusion into their policies for all types of mold loss but softened the impact by including a nominal amount -LRB- usually $ 10,000 -RRB- of coverage for mold damage to property and $ 50,000 for liability to others . Higher limits are usually available for an additional premium but most insurance buyers are not even aware of this option . Mold damage following a water damage loss or the breakdown of mechanical equipment could result in a serious loss . Increasing the mold coverage limits on homeowners , tenant-homeowners , dwelling and other property insurance policies should certainly be considered . This type of coverage , mold damage resulting from another covered loss , used to be free and was subject only to a policys limit . Now you have to pay for it and specific limits will apply but it remains an important insurance program consideration .
A homeowners policy pays for damages caused by specified perils . Water could enter your basement from a burst water line in the house , in which case the damage is most likely covered by your homeowners policy -LRB- there are various forms . -RRB- If the water entered your basement from outside it is very unlikely that there will be any coverage because that peril is usually excluded from a homeowners policy . 25 % of losses suffered by homeowners have to do with flood . Flood insurance is usually a separate policy .
Homeowners insurance may pay your legal defense and subsequent judgment under the liability portion of the policy . Examples of coverage being provided are a -RRB- a dependent child hitting a baseball thru a neighbor 's window , b -RRB- an owned pet hurting a non-household resident or c -RRB- someone slipping on a wet floor in your home . Homeowners liability coverage can also protect you away from home , as in the case of an errant tee shot on the golf course striking and injuring someone . Definitive answers to this question are determined by the insurance company at the time ofprompt filing of a possible claim .
If you own the house that is described in a homeowners policy there is coverage for the house located on the property , which includes additions and built-in parts and fixtures . There is also coverage for related private structures that are also on the described property which are not attached to the residence . When there is an occurrence that isnt expected or intended by the owner to the property there is coverage . This coverage means physical injury to tangible property and this includes the loss of use . Electrical wiring and fixtures are components of a residence and may be present in private structures located on the premises such as a pool shed or detached garage . When electrical work is required because of damage to the structure the electrical work becomes a covered expense . Policies differ as to which perils are covered . The most comprehensive form is called all risk . In this form any damage to the residence is covered except . The list isnt long ; however , flood and earthquake are at the top of the list . Electrical work poses another problem in that after damage has been sustained the repair work might fall under restrictions , codes , ordinances and law that were not in effect at the time of the original construction . The insurance company does not pay for the increased cost which results from the enforcement of these laws and codes . Some companies do not apply this to glass . Most companies offer a provision to cover these costs at an additional premium . The policy makes it clear that the company does not pay for damage that is the result of the neglect or the insured . It also does not pay for damage that is the result of power disruption . This means that if your loss is the result of the utility company failing to supply power , the resulting damage isnt covered . This is assuming that the actual damage is not on the covered premises . The insurance company does not pay for wear and tear . There are many ways to describe this damage that is sustained because the house was not maintained . Some of the issues that arise are deterioration , mechanical breakdown , rust , wet or dry rot , corrosion , mold , contamination or smog . The insurance company does not pay for electrical work that is the result of an act committed by or at the direction of the insured . In summary , if the electrical work required is the result of a fire or lightening , windstorm or hail , explosion , riot , aircraft , vehicles , sudden accidental damage by smoke , vandalism , theft , falling objects , weight of ice , snow or sleet , collapse of a building , sudden tearing apart , accidental discharge or overflow of liquids or steam from plumbing , heating or air-conditioning systems , or freezing , the policy will pay for repair of electrical components of the residence and other structures on the premises . If the electrical system needs repair as the result of other factors such as wear and tear , there isnt any coverage . The homeowners policy is designed to cover you when the unexpected occurs .
Homeowners policies contain a specific exclusion for the peril `` Flood '' . Flood is defined as , `` A flood is a general and temporary condition where two or more acres of normally dry land or two or more properties are inundated by water or mudflow . '' Maybe people confuse `` flood '' as a peril as compared to `` flooding '' of a basement or floor . If , for example , a pipe were to burst and `` flood '' the basement that would be a covered loss under a Standard HO-3 Homeowners Insurance Policy . It would cover the damage to the dwelling and your contents but not the cost to replace the pipe itself . Hope this helps
The short answer is it depends . A typical Howeowners policy will not cover basement walls/foundation for normal wear and tear . However , if a named peril occurs for which you have coverage , then you can make a claim against your insurance company . For example , if you have an earthquake endorsement on your policy and one occurs , that will trigger coverage for your basement walls . Acorollaryto this is seeking a basement wall/foundation endorsement on your policy . This will provide more elaborate coverage for your basement walls/foundation regardless of a named peril .
If you apartment was on fire and all your personal belongings were gone , where will you stay temporally ? Renters insurance will provide you with temporal hotel accommodation . If you were having a party at your apartment and one your guest slips and falls on your wet kitchen floor and breaks their hip and ambulance came took them to hospital and the medical bill is $ 28,000 . Now who do think is responsible for that ? YOU my friend ! Let say you loaded you car with your personal stuff worth say $ 5000 going on vacation to Florida . You car overheats at point and caught on fire and both your car and its content are gone . Assuming you have physical damage insurance on your car , your car insurance company with replace the fair market value of vehicle minus any applicable deductible . They will not replace your vehicle content of $ 5000 . If you had renters insurance for your apartment , they will cover your personal stuff in vehicle .
Yes and no ! The typical multi-peril homeowners policy water covers damage caused by rain under specific circumstances such as water windblown thru the roof shingles or a hole in the wall or roof caused by lightning . However if it rains to the degree that water collects on the ground and enter your home thru doors or windows , the homeowners policy does not cover it . That would require a flood insurance policy . If it rains and your sump pump fails and water fills your basement , most homeowners policies will NOT cover the loss , though many companies offers optional sump pump failure coverage . Consult your insurance professional for the details that apply in your state .
Why is life insurance important for a child ? It creates the cornerstone of a financial plan for their lifetime while they 're still wetting their pants . What a parent can do for a child is create a policy that grows over time and can give a child future options for additional insurance that can not be denied by the insurance company . One of the most powerful gifts you can do for your children is take away an insurance company 's ability to say `` no '' down the road to your child when they wish to increase coverage .
Always . And the landlord should request evidence of the existence of the renters insurance . Reason number one : Under the personal liability coverage of a renters policy the carrier agrees to pay the sums the insured is legally liable for as a result of bodily injury or property damage . What type of occurrencescould be involved ? A guest in the renter 's apartment slips on a wet bathroom floor , falls , and is injured . This is bodily injury . The tenant leaves a pan of oil on the stove unattended and a fire results damaging the building . This is property damage . Reason number two : Unless legally liable , the landlord is not responsible for the tenant 's business or personal property -LRB- for things like fire , theft , mysterious disappearance , etc -RRB- The tenant should cover their own property with insurance like a renters policy .
It depends upon the source of the water damage , the type of policy you have and whether the house is abandoned . To make this answer easier , lets assume that you have a Homeowners 3 policy and the house is either occupied or vacant -LRB- some furniture and presence -RRB- . Water damage from a burst pipe : typically your homeowners insurance will water damage from a burst pipe , however it will not cover the damaged pipe . You can get an endorsement to cover the damaged pipes . Water damage from rain/hail/wind : this will only be covered on a basic homeowners policy if the rain/hail caused the hole in the roof that lead to the water damage in your bathroom . Once again , you can get an endorsement to cover rain/hail/wind damage . Water damage from sewer backup or sump-pump failure : if the bathroom is in the basement and the water damage if from sewer backup or sump-pump failure you can only get coverage for this IF you have the appropriate endorsement - sewer and water backup . Please note that this is typically a sub-limit in your policy and goes towards both cleanup and replacement . I hope this helps .
Renter insurance makes a lot of sense . If you apartment was on fire and all your personal belongings were gone , where will you stay temporally ? Renters insurance will provide you with temporal hotel accommodation . If you were having a party at your apartment and one your guest slips and falls on your wet kitchen floor and breaks their hip and ambulance came took them to hospital and the medical bill is $ 28,000 . Now who do think is responsible for that ? YOU my friend ! Let say you loaded you car with your personal stuff worth say $ 5000 going on vacation to Florida . You car overheats at point and caught on fire and both your car and its content are gone . Assuming you have physical damage insurance on your car , your car insurance company with replace the fair market value of vehicle minus any applicable deductible . They will not replace your vehicle content of $ 5000 . If you had renters insurance for your apartment , they will cover your personal stuff in vehicle . Yes it makes sense to buy renters insurance .
It will , but it also depends upon where the water came from . If there is a heavy wind and rain storm and the wind damages your roof , causing rain water to leak in and damage the inside of your home , there will be coverage for that . If on the other hand , the heavy rain does not causedirect damage to your home , but raises the water table in your property , which causeswater to leak into your basement , it is possible that there would not be any coverage for that because ground waterdamage is usually excluded under a homeowners policy . Be sure to ask your insurance professional about coverge for failure of any sewars or drainage systems like curtain drains or sump pumps . If you have such coverage , then you will be more likely to be covered if your basement fills with water as a result of any failure .
The first step to buying life insurance is finding someone to sell it to you . This can be done by searching on the internet for `` instant life insurance quotes '' or `` diabetes life insurance '' or whatever search term fits your situation . Then pick the one that gives you a good price and appears to have a good reputation as evidenced by testimonials , being part of the BBB , etc. . OR you can call a local agent or agency . Once you visit with your agent and narrow down what policy you want to apply for , you fill out an application , sign and submit it . This can be done digitally or by a wet signature . The application then goes to the life insurance company for review . If you are getting a policy that does not require an exam , the policy may go into effect within as little as an hour or as long as a month . If you are applying for a medically underwritten policy , you will be contacted by a local paramed exam company to schedule a short exam done in your home or place of your choice . They will collect a blood sample , urine sample , blood pressure , etc , and ask health questions . The life insurance company may also order medical records from your physician -LRB- s -RRB- . When all the requirements are in and the underwriter has reviewed it all , he/she will approve your policy at the rating that is warranted based on your medical and other information . They will notify your agent , who will then notify you . Payment may be done at the time the application is done , at the time the policy is approved , or after you receive the policy in the mail and you have looked it over and decided to keep it .
David gives a good answer here to the many causes rates go up . But to very specific you will see rates change almost exclusively on renewal . So the When is usually at renewal . Occasionally an insurance department will deem an insurer unable to preform an put them in a situation where polices have to be cancelled mid term . I have only seen that once in 38 years in this business , but ultimately an insurers ability to pay claims is monitored by the individual states in which it operates and most importantly whee it is domiciled . Unfortunately in the US Insurers have typically lost money on homeowners business over the last 35 years . So , you can understand that many insurers see providing you with both auto and homeowners as an opportunity to make money > It is not by accident that there are some big name players who sell auto insurance , but little if any homeowners insurance . Use the occasion of each renewal to reach out to your agent and apprise him or her of changes in your home . Be sure to tell him/her of your newly finished basement and other changes the agent has no knowledge of . The wrong time to find out you do n't have enough coverage is after the major or total loss of your home.More so than any other purchase , your wealth is often tied up in your home , be protective of it !
This depends on the cause . If water is seeping though the walls , it typically is not covered as that would be considered maintenance . If the water is due to flood , it would only be covered under a flood policy . If the damage was due to a busted pipe or water heater , it would normally be covered . Repairs for common damp basements are not covered by homeowners insurance .
end question
start question
health-insurance
Will My Health Insurance Cover Breast Augmentation ?
Breast augmentation is generally considered a cosmetic procdure and not a medically necessary procedure , therefore , it is usually not covered . Breast reduction can be considered medically necessary and covered by health insurance if the breasts are causing back and neck issues . If it is considered medically necessary the surgery is covered once a woman is 18 years old and an adult .
Breast augmentation is generally considered a cosmetic procdure and not a medically necessary procedure , therefore , it is usually not covered . Breast reduction can be considered medically necessary and covered by health insurance if the breasts are causing back and neck issues . If it is considered medically necessary the surgery is covered once a woman is 18 years old and an adult .
Video Transcript : What is supplemental life insurance ? Supplemental life insurance can be extra insurance that you have above and beyond either your group plan at work or individually-purchased life insurance . If you purchased this and you need more , some people look at supplemental life insurance to augment what they already have . You may want to look at this in 2 ways '' ` Would I like to have more coverage or would I like to have a supplemental retirement income plan , an extra cash value contract , that can generate withdrawals to basis and policy loans to gain tax-free , as long as I keep the policy in force for the life of the policy insured ? ' If I 'm looking at it as a supplemental income play or I 'm looking at it as a supplemental death benefit , supplemental life insurance can be a great adjunct to what I already have , either by group or by my individual purchase .
I have been watching a major pension plan closely and they now require almost 30 % of the pay of their employees in order to meet the promises of pension when they retire . Social Security composes a major portion of your program but you will probably need to augment that . Saving early and saving substantially are the keys . You must move money from current consumption to the future if you want money to consume then .
A 401 -LRB- k -RRB- plan is a tax favored retirement program established by an employer for the benefit of the employees . Individuals can establish Individual Retirement Accounts -LRB- IRA -RRB- to accomplish the same for their retirement in a tax favored manner . The investments for their 401 -LRB- k -RRB- or an IRA may be available outside the plan , some , annuities , retain some of their tax advantages and can assist a person in augmenting their plan to retire .
Video Transcript : What is universal life ? Universal life insurance was invented in the '80s . It 's a combination of buying term and investing the difference . It has different crediting methods which could be interest rate , could be indexing , or could be separate sub-accounts . Those will give you 3 different ways to accumulate cash . If you 're looking for death benefit and it needs to be permanent , you need to make sure that the universal life contract that you choose has guaranteed death benefit for the period that you need . The cash accumulation ideas , whether it 's interest rate or whether it 's indexing or separate sub-accounts , those will bring some accumulating cash and it could be used for some retirement supplement plan to augment your 401k .
There are two basic classifications of annuities , immediate and deferred . The immediate annuity provides income payments over the lifetime of the annuitant starting within one year of the deposit . The deferred annuity doesnt start payments until a later date . Deferred annuities may increase in value over time . That increase is not subject to income tax as it occurs . This deferral of taxation is a major attraction of annuities . A deferred annuity can be either a single premium annuity or a flexible annuity . As a single premium annuity it is often used to augment retirement income at a later date , when other streams of income may have ceased . It is often used to anticipate increases in inflation , providing a much needed boost in income . As a flexible deferred annuity the contract allows the owner to make deposits on either a scheduled or unscheduled basis into the policy . As mentioned previously earnings on the contract are not taxed in the years that the money is accumulating . A deferred annuity can be classified into three major groups . The first would be the fixed annuity , the second would be the variable annuity and the third would be the indexed annuity . The fixed annuity is issued by an insurance company . The owner makes at least one deposit and everything that takes place later is the responsibility of the insurance company . The company guarantees the growth and guarantees the future payments . There isnt any market risk in this policy . A variable annuity , while structured similarly by the insurance company that issues it , allows that the owner can select the funds that will accumulate to provide future benefits . In some cases it may extend the privilege of selecting underlying funds into the annuitization phase which will result in uneven results but has the potential of exceptional growth . An index annuity lies somewhere in between . The index annuity is designed by the insurance company but rather than paying a guaranteed rate of interest , bases interest payments on the performance of one of the leading market indicators . Commonly these policies are linked to the Dow Jones Average or the Standard and Poors index . The annuity has restrictions on the amount of interest credited . The interest rate can either be capped at a preset percentage or the policy can be written so that only a percentage of the rate is applied to the money in the annuity . The trade-off comes when the company guarantees a minimum rate of interest . That minimum rate is often 0 % . What this means is that the annuity can participate somewhat in the increases experienced in the stock market without the risk of losing anything . This is quite attractive and currently very popular . An aspect of all annuities that is often overlooked is that they are not subject to probate . That means that as a contract the value of the annuity passes to a designated beneficiary without the expensive and time consuming process known as probate . Taxation of annuities is another subject but it is important to know where the annuity is going to be held to determine its taxation .
There is usually some type of life insurance policy you can get after being diagnosed with breast cancer . If you get a policy that covers you , either after disclosing that you have breast cancer , or because they did not ask -LRB- i.e. guaranteed issue life insurance -RRB- , yes , it will cover death from breast cancer or any other illness or accident . If you got a life insurance policy before having any idea that you were going to be diagnosed with breast cancer , the policy also will cover death due to breast cancer . We hope that the breast cancer never results in death . But if it did , you would be covered .
Prior to January 1 , 2013 the most likely answer to your question would have been no . Though , in group health insurance there might have been contracts , especially for some self-insured groups , where coverage for a breast pump might have been covered . One of the earlier provisions of the Affordable Care Act does require coverage for lactation services of which a breast pump is certainly a part of and therefore is technically covered . The law however does not specify any particular types or models of breast pumps that must be covered so the consumer should be aware that availability of breast pumps and the types and models that are covered will vary from one insurance carrier to another depending upon their internal policies regarding such durable medical equipment items . I advise that you check with your insurance carrier regarding their specific benefits for this service as they will probably have preferred vendors that they will want their members to purchase or rent these devices from and they will be able to inform you as to specifically what types or models of devices your policy with them will cover . Going out and buying a breast pump and then just filing a claim with your insurance carrier might result in a denial of the claim or a reduced level of coverage if your purchase was not within their guidelines .
Medicare will pay for breast reconstruction to repair the breast after injury , to improve the function of the breast , or to reconstruct one of both breasts after a mastectomy . Medicare will also cover the post surgery brassiere . This applies to elective -LRB- prophylactic -RRB- mastectomy for those with strong genetic markers to get breast cancer , as well as those who had the mastectomy as treatment for breast cancer .
It is highly unlikely that a breast lift would be covered as such a procedure is generally considered cosmetic in nature . For such a procedure to be approved medical necessity would have to be demonstrated . There are some circumstances where back/neck/shoulder problems can be traced to very enlarged breasts and a case for medical necessity for breast reduction surgery has successfully been made . But , if you are just losing the battle with time and gravity you should not expect a breast lift to be covered by your health insurance .
Critical Illness Insurance will usually cover breast cancer , but it may not cover masses in the breast that are in situ or stage 1 cancer -LRB- or may pay less for breast cancer in the lower stages -RRB- . Review your particular policy regarding their guidelines for breast cancer before purchasing your critical illness insurance policy .
When breast reconstruction is merely for cosmetic reasons the procedure is not considered medically necessary and would not be covered . Breast reconstruction surgery is normally covered by Medicare following cancer treatment that includes a radical mastectomy . In some cases Medicare may cover breast reduction and reconstruction when the surgery is done out of medical necessity .
Breast pumps are a convenience item , and not medically necessary . Health insurance is designed to cover expensive treatment that is considered a medical necessity . Health insurance does not cover many over the counter items , especially if they are not purposed to treat injury or a medical illness . Breast pumps are not covered by health insurance .
Critical Illness Insurance will usually cover breast cancer , but it may not cover masses in the breast that are in situ -LRB- DCIS -RRB- . Some critical illness policies pay for lower stage cancers with a reduced benefit . Review your particular policy regarding their guidelines for breast cancer before purchasing your critical illness insurance policy .
Under the new Affordable Care Act provisions , equipment for breast-feeding is often covered . But mechanical equipment coverage seems a bit murky . It may be best to contact your current insurer and describe the type of breast pump you have . They should be able to advise you if it is covered . Breast ... , I mean , best of luck to you .
Medicare will cover a breast reduction , but you 'll need to meet the guidelines . Unlike private insurance where you get pre-authorized , you 'll need to meet these specific guidelines : Individual weight of the breasts Amount to be removed A big problem you 'll run into is that breast reductions are performed by plastic surgeons and many do not accept medicare coverage . Begin this conversation with your surgeon from day 1 to assure you 're using the correct physician .
If you have purchased the life insurance prior to being diagnosed with breast cancer , yes you are covered . If you have had breast cancer and looking to purchase life insurance there are some things you need to know . The type , amount and terms depends on the cancer itselfand how long you have been cancer free after your last treatment . To get into the standard ratings after breast cancer practically all carriers will want to see you cancer free for 10 years . Anything less than10 yearswill be a higher risk policy of either rated premiums or graduated benefits . Good luck .
Breast implants are not covered by Medicare if done for cosmetic purposes . However , Medicare will cover breast prostheses following a mastectomy under Medicare Part A -LRB- if done on an inpatient basis -RRB- or Medicare Part B -LRB- if done on an outpatient basis -RRB- . The post-surgery brassiere is also covered by Medicare .
Cosmetic breast implants are not a covered expense under Medicare . Breast reconstructive surgery following a mastectomy is a covered expense under Medicare Part A and subject to the 2013 deductible of $ 1184 . Follow up treatment after discharge would be covered under Medicare Part B . You will need to satisfy your Part B deductible of $ 147 for 2013 .
end question
start question
life-insurance
What Is Social Security Life Insurance ?
Social security pays a lump sum death benefit of $ 255 to your next of kin to help defray the cost of burial . The processing of this is traditionally handled by the a funeral home . You can also contact the Social Security Administration yourself to begin to the process of the claim .
Deferring your Social Security benefit will increase your monthly benefit . A worker can start receiving their benefit as early as age 62 . Almost half of all workers elect this early date for a variety of reasons . However , the Social Security Administration increases the benefit each year that you defer by about 8 percent . Since benefits are payable for life for many people this delay will result in substantially increasing their total benefit . Your Social Security benefits are particularly valuable . For many the decision to defer benefits is the most important retirement income decision than will make . Almost two-thirds of retirees receive over half of their income from Social Security . Most retirees depend upon Social Security . The Social Security benefit is guaranteed and inflation adjusted . Having a high inflation adjusted benefit is important . Inflation is a major issue in retirement . It is payable to a worker and a spouse should the worker die . Retirees fret over loss of principle and low rate of return , however , inflation is the real enemy . Fixed income people often call me in distress because of an increase in their expenses that isnt matched with an increase in income . Social Security adjusts the benefit annually in accordance with the Consumer Price Index . The decision to defer impacts married couples the most . For married couples the higher of the two Social Security benefits is paid after the death of the first spouse to the surviving spouse . Because many retirees do not have guaranteed lifetime income deferring is the easiest way to increase that guaranteed income . With increased income comes greater satisfaction in retirement . Because the Social Security benefit is automatically adjusted for inflation it is very important to have the benefit set as high as possible to make the most of those adjustments . In fact that type of protection can rarely be purchased on the commercial market . This critical decision is not difficult to evaluate and implement . Once it is understood , deferring Social Security is really an easy strategy to implement . The easiest way to go about this is to just continue working . The worker doesnt need to remain in their current job but full or part time work that you love and that provides all or most of your income needs makes delaying Social Security quite simple . If married workers are both eligible for workers benefits under Social Security there are strategies that capitalize on the start dates . A retirement income specialist can help you work the math on this procedure but implementing this properly can result in a dramatic increase in Social Security benefits . The Social Security Administration also provides calculators on their website to help evaluate some of these approaches . There are misconceptions concerning deferral of Social Security benefits . As workers approach their eligibility dates they are sometimes distracted by a few things . The first thing is an understanding that their last day at work should be the same as their first day on Social Security . It is quite possible that that is neither true nor beneficial . The day that you stop work doesnt need to have any bearing on the date you start receiving benefits . Another misconception is that if a worker doesnt start benefits as early as possible they might lose out when Social Security fails . It is unlikely that Social Security will fail and to file early might result in the worker actually getting less . Some workers gamble that they will not live to normal life expectancy -LRB- which is the basis for most social security calculations . -RRB- That is an extremely poor gamble since losing puts you in a lower income for an even longer time if you live past life expectancy . Another consideration is that your spousal benefit will be much less should you die before your spouse . While most of the time the worker that defers gets a better deal and the spouse of that worker gets an increased benefit if they survive the worker , there are situations where not deferring the benefit is the best strategy . The time when that is always true is when the worker reaches 70 . There arent any increases available after 70 . Another situation where not deferring benefits would work to the advantage of the participant is when the worker is single and has a much less than expected life expectancy due to illness or injury . IF you arent in those categories you should at least weigh the advantages should you defer receiving benefits .
Before 1984 , Members of Congress received pensions that were based upon the Civil Service Retirement System . This is the same system used by other Federal employees . Members of Congress did not participate in the Social Security system . They were not eligible for social security benefits based upon their pay as Members of Congress . In 1983 Members of Congress and other federal employees , who were first hired after 1983 , were integrated into the Social Security System . Starting in 1984 all Members of Congress started participating in the Social Security System regardless of when they first entered Congress . Only those on the federal payroll prior to 1984 continue to participate in the Civil Service Retirement System . New Members of Congress since 1984 have participated in both Social Security and a new retirement program called the Federal Employees Retirement System . A Member of Congress can decline coverage in this program . Members elected prior to 1984 had the option of remaining on the Civil Service Retirement System or opting for the new Federal Employees Retirement System . The Civil Service Retirement program was not designed to be integrated with Social Security . The contributions and benefits from this program are much higher . When these benefits are combined with Social Security they can become substantial . Members of Congress can be covered under one of four different programs : 1 . Full coverage under Social Security and the old Civil Service Retirement System . 2 . An offset plan which includes both Social Security and the Civil Service Retirement System but the amount contributed to the CSRS is reduced by the amount paid into Social Security . 3 . The Federal Retirement System and Social Security 4 . Social Security alone . The pensions for Members of Congress are financed through a combination of contributions from the Congressman and from the Federal Governmenttheir employer . When they pay Social Security payroll taxes they pay the standard 6.2 % required of other employees . If they remained in the Civil Service Retirement System they pay an additional 7 % of their pay . If they opted for the Federal Retirement System they pay an additional .8 % of their pay . When they retire a Member of Congress can receive benefits in much the same way other federal employees do . They can file for and receive benefits under Social Security and they can apply for benefits under the retirement program they have adopted . The retirement benefit itself is based upon reaching at least age 62 and is a function of years of service and income in the highest three years of covered salary . The benefit generated under the Civil Service Retirement System is much greater than the benefit under the Federal Retirement System . By law , the benefit paid to a Member of Congress can not exceed eighty percent of the final pay of the Member of Congress . There are around 500 Members of Congress drawing pensions today . Their average pension in 2006 was under $ 35,000 . Members of Congress who elect an immediate annuity can also maintain the health insurance that they had as federal employees . Members of Congress that elect the FERS program are also eligible for a thrift savings program in which contributions are matched to a certain level .
If you think you might qualify for Medicare due to a disability , you should first file for disability benefits through the Social Security Administration . If approved , you may be able to get Medicare prior to age 65 due to a disability . In order to qualify for Medicare due to a disability , you must meet the criteria defined by the Social Security Administration : `` Social Security pays only for total disability . No benefits are payable for partial disability or for short-term disability . `` Disability '' under Social Security is based on your inability to work . We consider you disabled under Social Security rules if : You can not do work that you did before ; We decide that you can not adjust to other work because of your medical condition -LRB- s -RRB- ; and Your disability has lasted or is expected to last for at least one year or to result in death '' . You can apply for benefits through Medicare because of a disability online at : WEBSITELINK if you are tech savvy . If you choose not to apply online , you can apply at any local Social Security Administration office by phone or in person and you can call ahead to make an appointment by calling 1-800-772-1213 . If you are deaf or hearing impaired , call the SSA 's toll-free TTY number , 1-800-325-0778 . Their representatives are available from 7AM to 7PM , Monday through Friday . It is important to note that this definition of disability `` is different than other programs '' and `` is a strict definition of disability '' according to the Social Security Administration . There are many , more comprehensive disability policies available which allow benefits to be paid for a partial disability , for example , or pay benefits to help with various expenses such as paying your mortgage in the event that you suffer a disability . In addition , these policies can be purchased for key people in a business such as a business partner or profitable executive . For questions regarding which disability policy may be best for you or how much coverage you may need , it is best to speak with an Insurance Professional . They are highly trained in the business of Insurance , and will complete a full analysis of your needs and make recommendations based on what 's in your best interest . An Insurance Professional is a great resource for any other programs and products that may be of benefit to you including state and federal resources that you may qualify for based on your unique situation such as applying for Disability through the Social Security Administration . There is a reason they are so highly trained and regulated ! Resources : www.ssa.gov
In terms of Original Medicare , most people who are citizens or permanent residents of the United States can get premium free Medicare Part A -LRB- hospital insurance -RRB- at age 65 or older . At age 65 , you are eligible if : You receive or are eligible for Social Security benefits . You receive or are eligible to receive railroad retirement benefits . You or your spouse -LRB- living or deceased , including divorced spouses -RRB- worked long enough in a government job and paid Medicare taxes . You are the dependent parent of a fully insured deceased child . Before age 65 , you are eligible for free Medicare Part A -LRB- hospital insurance -RRB- if : Youve been entitled to receive Social Security disability benefits for 24 months . You receive a disability pension from the railroad retirement board and meet certain conditions . If you receive Social Security disability benefits because you have Lou Gehrigs disease . You worked long enough in a government job and paid Medicare taxes and you meet Social Security disability program requirements . You are the child or widow -LRB- er -RRB- age 50 or older . This includes a divorced widow -LRB- er -RRB- , of someone who has worked long enough in a government job where Medicare taxes were paid and you meet the Social Security disability program requirements . You receive maintenance dialysis or a kidney transplant because you have permanent kidney failure . You are eligible for or you already receive monthly benefits under Social Security or the railroad retirement system . You have met the required amount of time working in a Medicare covered government job . You are the child or spouse -LRB- also includes a divorced spouse -RRB- of a worker -LRB- living or deceased -RRB- who has worked long enough under Social Security or in a government -LRB- Medicare-covered -RRB- job .
The social security number is a necessary method of identifying you and your record . Most insurers use this number to zero in on your identity . Unfortunately , your social security number is used to identify you and your record to insurance carriers , and just about every other kind of business that is granting credit or coverage . Would n't it be nice to be able to protect this one vital bit of information and have another identifying number we could use ? But I digress ... But , as identifiers go , the social security number is probably the best current way for your creditors and insurance companies to make sure you are really you . Insurance is making a bigger and bigger use of credit base underwriting and pricing every year and most carriers use credit to one extent or another in insurance eligibility and pricing . Companies are also using vast data base records of claims and driving history that are often cataloged by your address , your name , your spouse , former addresses , and even the prior owners and subsequent owners of cars you have once owned and insured . With all the potential for confusion , your social security number is one unique bit of information that is n't easily duplicated in these claims and records databases . So , in that one way , your social security number helps keep you from being lumped together with others who may have a similar name , owned your car , or lived in the same house or apartment . Your social security number has been tied to credit reports and your borrowing for decades so insurance companies use this number to be as certain as possible they are looking at your record and not someone with a similar name . While the social security number has now been exploited for way to many reasons of identification , it is good that you still have one way to separate yourself from others with similarities that can cause confusion in underwriting and pricing your insurance and that is a good thing . Hope this helps .
We get this question a lot here at The Medigap Market . Your medicare number will always consist of you or your spouses social security number with a letter at the end indicating any number of different statuses . If you have a letter T -LRB- Temporary -RRB- in your medicare number it means that you are not currently drawing social security payments . If and when you do begin drawing social security payments the T will be replaced by a letter A indicating you are the primary beneficiary drawing benefits under your social security number . In case you did n't already know , if you are not drawing social security your medicare part B premium will be billed to you quarterly and if you are drawing social security your Part B premium will be deducted automatically from your check every month .
Retirement , Survivors , and Disability Insurance is a reference to three of the benefits that Social Security pays to those who have paid into Social Security taxes . The `` retirement '' part refers to Social Security income that people get when they retire . the `` survivors '' part refers to the Social Security income benefits paid to dependents of a qualified deceased person . And the `` disability '' part refers to Social Security Disability benefits disabled persons receive if they are qualified .
Social Security disability insurance pays benefits to you and certain members of your family if you have earned enough work credits to be considered `` insured '' . Four work credits can be earned each year . In 2014 , you receive one work credit for each $ 1200 of earnings , up to the yearly maximum of four credits . How many credits you need for disability benefits depends on how old you are when you are disabled . If you become disabled prior to age 24 , you need 11/2 years of work -LRB- 6 credits -RRB- in the three years before you became disabled . For ages 24-30 , you need credits for half of the time between age 21 and when you became disabled . If you are 31 or older , you need at least 20 credits during the 10 year period preceding when you were disabled . Like most things associated with Social Security , it is a bit more complicated than this example . Remember , the worker has to have paid into Social Security to be qualified . There are `` survivor '' benefits as well . When a person who has worked and paid Social Security taxes dies , certain members of their family may be eligible for survivors benefits . Up to ten years of work is need to be eligible , depending on the person 's age at the time of death . A widow/widower can claim full benefits at their full retirement age and reduced benefits at age 60 . A disabled widow/widower can claim as early as age 50 . Divorced spouses under certain conditions can also claim survivor benefits . Unmarried children under age 18 -LRB- 19 if they are full time in elementary or secondary school -RRB- , some step-children , adopted children and grand children can also receive survivor benefits . There are many other situations where survivor benefits can be claimed such as a widow or widower of any age that takes care of a deceased person 's child under the age of 16 or disabled , and receiving Social Security benefits . Children who were disabled prior to their age 22 and remain disabled , and in some cases , dependent parents who are age 62 or older . As you can see , there are a lot of rules and regulations surrounding disability benefits for Social Security . Seek out someone who knows the rules .
Social Security Disability Insurance is a payroll tax social program . It falls under the pervue of Social Security Administration . It provides income to people who cant work because of a disability . Social Security Disability can be temporary or permanent benefit . Social Security Disability does not depend on the income of the disabled individual receiving it .
Social Security is affected by income you receive during retirement . There are ways to maximize your retirement income looking at when to draw on your Social Security versus using your 401 -LRB- k -RRB- . What really comes into question is how is the taxation of your retirement funds going to cut into your potential income . Working with a professional who has specific knowledge in the Social Security Income system is a must . First I would recommend going to the Social Security website , set up a free account for yourself , and see what your estimated benefit is going to be . From there you can plan the best way to start using your retirement monies , keeping the tax liability to a minimum and to maximize the potential income you have available .
Generally , you are eligible for Medicare if you or your spouse worked for at least 10 years in Medicare-covered employment and you are 65 years or older and a citizen or permanent resident of the United States . If you arent yet 65 , you might also qualify for coverage if you have a disability or with End-Stage Renal disease -LRB- permanent kidney failure requiring dialysis or transplant -RRB- . Here are some simple guidelines . You can get Part A at age 65 without having to pay premiums if : You already get retirement benefits from Social Security or the Railroad Retirement Board . You are eligible to get Social Security or Railroad benefits but have n't yet filed for them . You or your spouse had Medicare-covered government employment . If you are under 65 , you can get Part A without having to pay premiums if you have : Received Social Security or Railroad Retirement Board disability benefits for 24 months . End-Stage Renal Disease and meet certain requirements . While you do not have to pay a premium for Part A if you meet one of these conditions , you must pay for Part B if you want it . The Part B monthly premium in 2013 is $ 104.90 per month . It is deducted from your Social Security , Railroad Retirement , or Civil Service Retirement check . If you dont get any of the above payments , Medicare sends you a bill for your Part B premium every 3 months . Note : You will be eligible for Medicare when you turn 65 even if you are not eligible for Social Security retirement benefits .
Social Security defines a disability as expected to last at least one year or to result in death and prevents one from doing any substantial , gainful work . Through our Social Security system here in the United States , benefits are available for workers -LRB- and their families -RRB- who have earned enough work credits to be eligible for Social Security disability benefits . What that means is that the individual must have a proven work record of credits in order to qualify for disability benefits under Social Security , and they must have paid into the system in order to obtain a benefit from it . -LRB- For young workers , the criteria are a little different because of their limited time in the employment market . -RRB-
You will enrolled for Medicare Part A automatically when you turn 65 . If you are receiving Social Securiy you will be enrolled in Part B automatically and Social Security will start deducting your Part B premium from your monthly Social Security Benefit . If you are not receiving Social Security benefits Medicare will notify you 4 to 6 months prior to your Medicare open enrollment period that you are eligible for Medicare the first day of your birth month on your 65th birthday . Your Open Enrollment Period is a 7-month period beginning 3-months before your 65th birthday and 3-months after . You can reply to the Medicare enrollment reminder to enroll you in Medicare or you can decline Part B . If you are not receiving Social Security benefits you will have to pay the first 3-months of your Part B premium by check or money order . You can decline Part B without penalty as long as you are enrolled in an qualified employer health care plan . If you are not enrolled in such a plan you will be penalized 10 % each year when or if you apply for Part B . You can also use the Medicare.gov website to enroll online .
If you qualify for Social Security Disability and are disabled for two years you will qualify for Medicare . I have many clients on Medicare and Social Security Disability . The key here is Social Security Disability . If you are collecting on a private disability policy and you are not yet on Social Security Disability then you can not get Medicare .
This is a great question . The relation of social security to Medicare . When you first apply for medicare that is normally done at the social security office or by calling social security . However Medicare part A is normally at no cost . Part B for most people is a little bit over 104 dollars monthly and if an individual is receiving a social security check , the part B premium is normally deducted from it .
You can get Medicare when you turn 65 and not receive a Social Security benefit check . Medicare Part A is free but the standard premium for Medicare Part B for 2016 is $ 121.80 . If you are not receiving a Social Security check you will have to pay the Part B premium on a quarterly basis and mail it to Social Security . Once you start receiving a Social Security check the Part B premium will be automatically deducted from your check .
Video Transcript : Hello , everyone . I 'm Steve Savant , syndicated financial columnist and host of the weekly online talk show `` Steve Savant 's Money : The Name of the Game . '' I 'm answering questions from insurancelibrary.com , and today 's question is : Is the income from a life insurance policy includable for the Social Security provisional income test ? Well as you know , there are many forms of income , and all those incomes have to be generated or actually transferred over to the provisional income test to see whether or not Social Security benefits are going to be taxed by it . And of course , there are many forms of income , and most all of those forms of income somehow , some way make it to the provisional income test to test whether your Social Security is going to get taxed . But withdrawals to basis and policy loans of gain on a TAMRA-compliant , non-modified endowment contract kept in force for the life of the policy insured , that never actually is put on your 1040 . So the income is n't placed on your 1040 ; it 's not a taxable event . And the best part about that is it does n't enter into your provisional income test , so that your Social Security benefits stay tax-free . Well , that 's our consumer question for today . If you have any questions , just submit them to www.insurancelibrary.com .
Hopefully , it will not fit in too much . Each year we hear about Social Security drying up as people are living longer and drawing benefits longer . Keep in mind that Social Security will not affect what you get from your pension , profit sharing , savings and other assets you have to draw from upon your retirement . Its just that the benefits are drawing up for people like you and me who will be retiring in the future . You should contact the Social Security office and get a printout of what you anticipated benefits will be so that you can budget . This will help you better plan your retirement .
There are two products provided through Social Security : 1 -RRB- Social Security Disability Insurance and 2 -RRB- SSI , or Supplemental Security Income . Social Security Disability Insurance -LRB- commonly referred to as `` Disability '' is for people who have become disabled . They will get Medicare after receiving disability benefits for two years . Those on SSI are disabled or blind and also have limited income and resources . In most states , they are usually automatically eligible for Medicaid when they go on SSI .
end question
start question
life-insurance
How Big Is The US Life Insurance Industry ?
The U.S. life insurance industry is huge . The U.S. market has more than $ 18.4 trillion of life insurance protection via individual policies and group plans . The life insurance industry has $ 4.8 trillion in the U.S. economy and is one of the largest government bond holders in the world .
For the right person selling life insurance can make for a great career . The key is figuring out if you 're the right person . Short of second or third generation insurance families , you wo n't find anyone who dreamed of being a life insurance agent as a child . As William wrote above , the statistics for success in life insurance sales are terrifyingly bad . However the ever increasing age of the average life insurance agent along with so few new agents entering the industry will present some great opportunities for young people who want to build a business . The demographics of the average life insurance agent are male , pale and stale . In other words , old white men . If the industry is to survive , and there is little doubt the industry will survive , those demographics have to change . There are two primary facets of a life insurance career . You need to be good at sales , and you need to know insurance . My experience is that the few people who do succeed in this business had a solid foundation in one of those camps starting out . A good salesperson has the ability to switch industries . If you have had some success selling cars or real estate or electronics , you will be able to sell life insurance . You will be able to learn the products and the industry as you go along and build a good career . If you have solid insurance industry experience but have never sold anything , you also have a better chance at success . Even if your experience is as a CSR in a P & C agency , you will pick up the life insurance side of the business quickly . You already speak insurance , now you just need to learn how to sell . But people who `` try out '' selling life insurance who have no sales experience and no insurance experience rarely succeed . It is just too difficult to learn the skill of selling at the same time you are trying to learn about insurance itself . So yes , life insurance sales is potentially a good career if you have sales experience . It is also potentially a good career if you have experience in some other facet of the insurance industry . If you do n't have either of those things , you will probably not find success in life insurance sales . Best of luck in your career !
Figuring out what health insurance you should get depends on several factors - mainly how much risk are you willing to take on and how big of a check are you willing to write . You have the options for bronze , silver , gold , and platinum level plans -LRB- as you go up in metal , the price goes up , but provides better benefits -RRB- - some areas also have a catastrophic plan available . In addition , your age is a big factor as well . The younger you are , the cheaper your premium - the older you are , the higher your premium . Also , if you use tobacco products , your premium can be increased up to 50 % as well . Bronze plans generally cover about 60 % of your healthcare expenses , Silver is 70 % , Gold is 80 % , and Platinum is 90 % . So , in short , the better the benefits that you want to have , the higher the premium will be.This is where an independent insurance agent can really help you . They can work with you to look at a wide range of options from many of the top carriers in the industry . So , in short , If you want to have better protection and take on less risk , you may want to look at a gold or platinum plan . If you want to simply keep your premiums down and do n't mind taking on more risk , you may want to look at a bronze or silver plan .
David has given you a fine explanation of the mechanics of cash accumulation inside life insurance . I will address an additional point . One big reason for why life insurance has cash value is because that cash makes more people want to buy the product . When you think about it , life insurance really is not for the insured - it is for the beneficiaries of the insured . These include their families , their businesses , and their favorite charities . For many people , it is considered a necessary evil . They certainly want to do right by all these folks they support , but really - who wants to buy something that pays off when you die ? I think that from a marketing point of view , cash value sweetens the pot . It makes the product much more appealing . Now people can have their cake and eat it too . They can purchase a policy with a survivor benefit for their heirs . That policy can also have a cash account that is available to them while they are alive . They can use the money to supplement retirement ; buy a house ; fund a business ; and for emergencies Not only that : the cash receives very favorable tax treatment . You might ask , why does the government give such favorable tax treatment to life insurance ? One big reason is that there is no way on earth that federal and state governments could take care of all the people that benefit from life insurance . It simply could not collect enough money to pay all the windows , widowers , children , businesses , and charities for whom people buy policies . It is entirely in the governments interest for people to buy tons and tons of life insurance . And over time , people have . The life insurance industry has poured trillions of dollars into the economy so that people can remain self-reliant - and off of government subsidies . The side benefit of a cash account helps make that happen .
There are five primary factors that determine what a short term disability policy may cost : monthly benefit amount , elimination period , payment duration , your age , and industry of your employer . You may qualify for up to two thirds of your gross income , up to a hard dollar monthly cap . The higher the monthly benefit , the higher the premium cost . The elimination period describes how quickly benefit payments begin after becoming disabled . Shorter elimination periods cost more than longer ones . Payment duration describes how long payments continue . A shorter payment duration cost less than a longer one . Policies cost less for younger applicants . Rates are often based upon the industry of your primary employer . Applicants working in low risk industries pay less than those in high risk industries .
I have heard it said that the top life insurance sales people make more money than the top sales people in other industries . This could be true , because large commissions can run it to the millions of dollars . The life insurance business is an ideal environment for making it big . We sell a product that pays well . We represent strong and well established manufactures of this product -LRB- policies -RRB- . We dont have to maintain an inventory . We can develop sales organizations that dont require much labor or overhead . The demand for our services remains constant throughout the ups and downs of the economy . Of course , we have to pay our dues big time . We have to constantly strive to master our field and enhance our professional skills . We have to market , market , market , and then market some more . And we have to invest in every client prior to getting paid . To provide superior service , we need to provide a quote for a rate about which we are confident they will be approved . That can take many hours of work . And remember that life insurance has the most sophisticated and complicated set of eligibility requirements of all financial products . But at the end of the day we know we do outstanding work , and so we earn outstanding pay .
Birla life insurance is life insurance sold through the Birla Sun Life Insurance Company Limited . The company is a joint venture of Aditya Birla Group of India , and Sun Life Financial , Inc , of Canada . Birla life insurance is primarily sold in India and is a very big part of the life insurance industry there .
How much your health insurance costs is going to depend on several factors : your age , where you live , what level plan you want , and which carrier your policy will be with . Under the Affordable Care Act , you have the options for bronze , silver , gold , and platinum level plans -LRB- as you go up in metal , the price goes up , but provides better benefits -RRB- - some areas also have a catastrophic plan available . In addition , your age is a big factor as well . The younger you are , the cheaper your premium - the older you are , the higher your premium . Also , if you use tobacco products , your premium can be increased up to 50 % as well . This is where an independent insurance agent can really help you . They can work with you to look at a wide range of options from many of the top carriers in the industry .
Life insurance companies have large reserves to pay claims . They are regulated by multiple departments of insurance in states they do business in . By these regulations they are very conservative investors meaning the do n't take a lot of risk with this reserve money . The life insurance industry is a huge industry . According to LIMRA there is $ 18.4 Trillion of life insurance in force in the United States alone . The other little secret is about 1 % of term life insurance pay out claims . Therefore it is a very profitable industry but also a very needed industry . It is a shame that 99 % of term policies are cancelled before they are needed .
With low interest rates beginning to rise and life insurance industry sales flat , there will be a concerted effort to consolidate companies , so acquisitions will dominate the insurance industry for next 5-7 years . Although competition will be reduced by acquisitions , those carriers that remain will force the market to new levels of competition that will play a role in the continuing decline in life premiums accelerated by new frontiers in life expectancy . Look for a new CSO mortality table before 2020 . The tax advantages of life and annuities will continue through 2020 as the industry continues to be the only reliable industry to purchase government debentures .
While you can try to come up with an `` average '' cost , there 's too many factors that go into premium pricing to say how in relation that compares to you . In short , an `` average '' premium is a rather useless figure to the individual . It 's only representative to a large group - you could have people from a couple hundred dollars per month to several thousand . Even for that there 's a ton of information to sift through to get an accurate representation . Under the new Affordable Care Act , you have the options for bronze , silver , gold , and platinum level plans -LRB- as you go up in metal , the price goes up , but provides better benefits -RRB- - some areas also have a catastrophic plan available . In addition , your age is a big factor as well . The younger you are , the cheaper your premium - the older you are , the higher your premium . Also , if you use tobacco products , your premium can be increased up to 50 % as well . This is where an independent insurance agent can really help you . They can work with you to look at a wide range of options from many of the top carriers in the industry .
Unfortunately there 's too many factors that go into premium pricing to say what an average plan costs . Under the new Affordable Care Act , you have the options for bronze , silver , gold , and platinum level plans -LRB- as you go up in metal , the price goes up , but provides better benefits -RRB- - some areas also have a catastrophic plan available . In addition , your age is a big factor as well . The younger you are , the cheaper your premium - the older you are , the higher your premium . Also , if you use tobacco products , your premium can be increased up to 50 % as well . This is where an independent insurance agent can really help you . They can work with you to look at a wide range of options from many of the top carriers in the industry .
Because most life insurance brokers make their living off of commission rather than being paid a salary , there is a big range in what brokers earn . Obviously , the more erudite , experienced and established a broker is , the greater their potential for making a higher wage . However , expenses and industry trends can take a toll on even the best of brokers . If a broker is resilient , gets some good breaks , and is persistent , they can make a good living . On the other hand , there is a trail of life insurance brokers who have needed to switch careers to meet their income needs . It just depends .
You do n't . Very few colleges or universities have programs that prepare a student for a career in the insurance industry . That 's not to say that a bachelor 's degree would be useless , especially if it 's a degree in business administration it would certainly help you understand the bigger picture of risk management and the various areas where it can apply and why . But there are many very successful people in the insurance industry that either do n't have a bachelor 's degree at all or have a degree in a field that was totally unrelated to insurance . Insurance carriers probably prefer candidates with a college education and in today 's job market they can be choosy if it suits their corporate agenda and image . The major insurance consulting firms that deal with large businesses and complex risk management issues can certainly make the case that a bachelor 's degree and perhaps even advanced degrees -LRB- MBA , PhD -RRB- are necessary for the kinds of work they do . And I 'm sure some insurance agencies feel the same way . But as a 30-year veteran -LRB- admittedly college educated -RRB- very little of what most people learn in college will ever be applied in working with small and medium sized businesses and individuals on their various insurance needs . That 's the kind of training you will have to get in the real world of actually learning the products of the specific segment of the insurance industry you are working in and learning from the school of hard knocks . What 's really crucial in today 's insurance world is that you bring the capability to continually educate yourself , learn from others and regularly update your industry knowledge and skills as the insurance world is very dynamic and evolving rapidly .
Unfortunately , as a 30 year veteran of the health insurance industry I have to tell you there is no objective measure or rating that the consumer can refer to in attempting to answer the question `` Which Are The Best Health Insurance Providers ? '' . The herd has been thinned out considerably amongst health insurance carriers over the last 20 years and so you have your big national players life AETNA , Assurant , CIGNA , Humana , United Healthcare , WellPoint , state based Blue Cross/BlueShield plans and then more regionally based carriers like Kaiser . To be blunt , insurance carriers have become more of a commodity -LRB- some might argue public utility -RRB- these days than they would ever want to admit to . They are all copying each other and often using the same health care providers in their networks . So , while it would be incorrect to say they are all identical , the quality of care and customer service levels from the consumer 's perspective are very similar from one health insurance carrier to the next . From the health care provider 's perspective some health insurance carriers have reputations for being more aggressive in negotiating discounts and being easy or complicated to get paid by than other health insurance company 's do . But , even this can vary from state to state and change over time as health insurance carriers continually adjust to the changing environment .
The answer to this depends very much on when you asked her the question ! When she was a producer in the financial services industry , Suze was a big proponent of variable annuities . Now that she is a talk show `` money guru '' , she thumbs her nose at them . The truth is , annuities are n't `` good '' or `` bad '' -LRB- just like any other financial product -RRB- . There are good ones and not-so-good ones , but the product itself is n't `` evil '' . The key is to make sure that they are being bought/sold for the right purpose .
The average cost in the country for a health insurance plan -LRB- overall -RRB- is estimated to be about $ 328 per month - however , this is only reflective upon a silver level plan -LRB- not all 2014 state figure averages are available yet -RRB- . While you can try to come up with an `` average '' cost , there 's too many factors that go into premium pricing to say how in relation that compares to an individual as compared to the overall group . In short , an `` average '' premium is a rather useless figure to the individual . It 's only representative to a large group - you could have people paying a small nominal amount -LRB- after factoring in subsidies -RRB- per month to several thousand dollars per month . Even for that there 's a ton of information to sift through to get an accurate representation . Whether you are covered under an individual health plan or group coverage will influence what you 're paying . Under the Affordable Care Act , you have the options for bronze , silver , gold , and platinum level plans -LRB- as you go up in metal , the price goes up , but provides better benefits -RRB- - some areas also have a catastrophic plan available . In addition , your age and zip codes are big factors as well . The younger you are , the cheaper your premium - the older you are , the higher your premium . Also , if you use tobacco products , your premium can be increased up to 50 % as well . I always recommend consulting with an experienced broker regarding your personal health coverage . We can work with you to look at a wide range of options from many of the top carriers in the industry and find the plan that 's going to be best suitable for your needs . Please let me know if I can be of further assistance . Thanks very much .
The average cost per person in the country for a health insurance plan is estimated to be about $ 328 per month - however , this is only reflective upon a silver level plan -LRB- not all 2014 state figure averages are available yet -RRB- . While you can try to come up with an `` average '' cost , there 's too many factors that go into premium pricing to say how in relation that compares to an individual as compared to the overall group . In short , an `` average '' premium is a rather useless figure to the individual . It 's only representative to a large group - you could have people paying a small nominal amount -LRB- after factoring in subsidies -RRB- per month to several thousand dollars per month . Even for that there 's a ton of information to sift through to get an accurate representation . Under the Affordable Care Act , you have the options for bronze , silver , gold , and platinum level plans -LRB- as you go up in metal , the price goes up , but provides better benefits -RRB- - some areas also have a catastrophic plan available . In addition , your age is a big factor as well . The younger you are , the cheaper your premium - the older you are , the higher your premium . Also , if you use tobacco products , your premium can be increased up to 50 % as well . This is where an independent insurance agent can really help you . They can work with you to look at a wide range of options from many of the top carriers in the industry and find the plan that 's going to be best suitable for your needs .
The average cost in the country for a health insurance plan is $ 328 per month - however , this is only reflective upon a silver level plan -LRB- not all 2014 state figure averages are available yet -RRB- . While you can try to come up with an `` average '' cost , there 's too many factors that go into premium pricing to say how in relation that compares to you . In short , an `` average '' premium is a rather useless figure to the individual . It 's only representative to a large group - you could have people paying a small nominal amount -LRB- after factoring in subsidies -RRB- per month to several thousand dollars per month . Even for that there 's a ton of information to sift through to get an accurate representation . Under the new Affordable Care Act , you have the options for bronze , silver , gold , and platinum level plans -LRB- as you go up in metal , the price goes up , but provides better benefits -RRB- - some areas also have a catastrophic plan available . In addition , your age is a big factor as well . The younger you are , the cheaper your premium - the older you are , the higher your premium . Also , if you use tobacco products , your premium can be increased up to 50 % as well . This is where an independent insurance agent can really help you . They can work with you to look at a wide range of options from many of the top carriers in the industry and find the plan that 's going to be best suitable for your needs .
The average cost in the country for a health insurance plan -LRB- overall -RRB- is estimated to be about $ 328 per month - however , this is only reflective upon a silver level plan -LRB- not all 2014 state figure averages are available yet -RRB- . While you can try to come up with an `` average '' cost , there 's too many factors that go into premium pricing to say how in relation that compares to an individual as compared to the overall group . In short , an `` average '' premium is a rather useless figure to the individual . It 's only representative to a large group - you could have people paying a small nominal amount -LRB- after factoring in subsidies -RRB- per month to several thousand dollars per month . Even for that there 's a ton of information to sift through to get an accurate representation . Under the Affordable Care Act , you have the options for bronze , silver , gold , and platinum level plans -LRB- as you go up in metal , the price goes up , but provides better benefits -RRB- - some areas also have a catastrophic plan available . In addition , your age and zip codes are big factors as well . The younger you are , the cheaper your premium - the older you are , the higher your premium . Also , if you use tobacco products , your premium can be increased up to 50 % as well . I always recommend consulting with an experienced broker regarding your personal health coverage . We can work with you to look at a wide range of options from many of the top carriers in the industry and find the plan that 's going to be best suitable for your needs . Please let me know if I can be of further assistance . Thanks very much .
end question
start question
life-insurance
What Is Graded Death Benefit Whole Life Insurance ?
Graded Benefit Whole Life Insurance is whole life insurance that pays a reduced benefit during the first one to three years , then pays the full death benefit after that . E.g. . If death occurred during year one or two , it may pay back all you paid in , plus 10 % . If death occurred during year three or afterwards , it would pay the beneficiary the whole death benefit . Different policies are graded a different number of years , and each carrier has their own criteria for how much is paid back during the graded years . Most graded benefit whole life policies are only graded for natural death . I.e. death due to illness or old age . They usually pay 100 % of the death benefit from day one for accidental death . Guaranteed issue whole life policies are graded , and some simplified issue policies are graded . Simplified issue policies are those that do not require an exam . The biggest thing to watch out for with graded whole life insurance is whether the premium stays level for life . Some graded whole life policies have premiums that go up at regular intervals . With some , the company may raise the premiums at any time , as long as they do so for everyone owning that type of policy . If you anticipate living longer than a few years , it is best to buy a graded benefit whole life policy where the premium will stay level for the rest of your life . Please feel free to contact me at any time if you would like to see whether you qualify for an immediate benefit policy , or to get some competitive quotes for several graded benefit policies that have the price locked in for life .
That is a great question ! If you are looking at whole life insurance policies , you want to look at whether the policy is an `` immediate issue '' policy , or one that is a `` graded -LRB- or `` modified '' -RRB- '' policy . An immediate issue policy is one that goes into effect as soon as the underwriting is approved , the policy is issued , and the first payment received -LRB- in some States the policy may be honored if the company issued the policy , and the payment had not yet been received -RRB- . These policies are most often written for people with great health , or people with minor health issues , as determined by that company 's underwriters . -LRB- A good independent agent can help you find the best fit . -RRB- A graded or modified policy will be issued to folks that have more significant health issues , or by companies that are mass marketing the policy - like AARP or Mutual of Omaha 's `` guaranteed everyone qualifies '' policies that you see on TV or that arrive in your mailbox . These policies will all have a period of time where the desired face value -LRB- and typically it is very small - often not more than $ 10,000 -RRB- is not paid out unless the insured dies an accidental death -LRB- as strictly defined by the insurer -RRB- . Typically any health related passing will result in a payment only of the amount you 've paid into the policy , and some amount of interest . This period is generally 2-3 years . -LRB- Again , an independent agent can help sort through companies to help you find the best grade for you . -RRB- So an `` everyone is guaranteed '' policy like AARP offers will somewhere in the small print tell you that the policy has a graded or modified benefit period of ___ years and during that period a death resulting from natural causes will result in the return of premiums paid plus __ % interest . This is done to help limit their cost over the entirety of the risk classes they will be insuring . The other companies that offer this type of policy are doing it based upon your specific health issues , and the increased risk to your mortality . For example , someone who has no diabetes , or that has controlled their disease with a regimen like Metformin will usually be a certain immediate issue candidate . Someone whose diabetes went unchecked for a while , and is on an insulin program will more often than not be issued a graded/modified policy . If that unchecked diabetes has led to complications like amputations , diabetic coma , or neuropathy , you can usually expect the more expensive guaranteed issue policy to be your only option . Again , a good agent can help you find the best fit for you . You can expect to pay less for the immediate issue policy , more for the graded policy , and most for the guaranteed issue policy . I hope that answers all of your questions , and if not , please do n't hesitate to reach out and contact me , I 'd be more than happy to spend some time answering whatever questions or concerns that you may have . Thank you for asking !
Graded death benefit whole life insurance is permanent coverage that features an alternative structure in the first 2 or 3 years of the policy -LRB- depending on the insurance company -RRB- . The program will feature one of two graded benefit methods . 1 -RRB- Return of premium - if death occurs during the graded period , any premiums paid into the policy is given to the beneficiary . If death occurs under accidental means , then the full benefit is still payable . After the graded period has expired , the full benefit is payable regardless of whether death occurs due to illness or injury . Some carriers may offer interest on your premiums if the insured passes away during the graded period - be sure to review your policy to see if it 's under your policy . The return of premium structure is more commonly seen under graded benefit whole life policies . 2 -RRB- Reduced death benefit - if death occurs during the graded period , the coverage will payout a specific percentage of the death benefit , depending on which year during the graded period death occurs . For example , if death occurs during the first year of the policy , the carrier only pays 30 % or 35 % of the death benefit -LRB- depending on the carrier -RRB- - 70 % or 75 % if death occurs during year 2 . If death occurs under accidental means during the graded period , then the full benefit is payable . After the graded period has expired , the full benefit is payable regardless of whether death occurs by illness or injury . Under final expense policies -LRB- another name for small whole life policies with face amounts of $ 25,000 or less -RRB- , the responses to the health questions determine whether you will qualify for a level benefit -LRB- immediate full coverage -RRB- or a graded benefit . Typically , to qualify for a level benefit , all the health questions have to be answered no . Please note , just because you may not be able to answer all health questions no for one carrier 's program , does n't mean you would n't be able to answer no to all questions for a different carrier . Each insurance company has their own questions that they ask so one carrier may be able to consider a level benefit where another may not . The wording to the questions is critical to pay attention to . If you ca n't qualify for traditional final expense coverage , you always have the option for GUARANTEED ISSUE whole life . These programs do not ask any health questions whatsoever . They will feature the return of premium graded period . When buying any whole life insurance policy , be sure to remember 2 things : 1 -RRB- Do the premiums remain the same for the entire life of the policy ? - Some policies feature banded premium - meaning they go up every 5 years . They may be cheaper up front during the first couple years , but can cost significantly more over the long run . 2 -RRB- What age does the coverage carry you to ? - Some policies will only carry you to age 80 or to age 90 - and if you live beyond that age , your policy automatically terminates . It 's best to set yourself up with something that guarantees the coverage will remain in place for life -LRB- as long as you continue to pay your premiums of course -RRB- . I always suggest consulting with an independent agent who can shop the case for you and compare multiple insurance policies with your medical history to make sure you 're getting the desired coverage at the lowest possible cost . There is no cost to doing so . If you 'd like some help gathering the most accurate quotes and securing the coverage at the lowest cost , please send me an e-mail via the contact me button next to my name with your name and contact information to reach you at . I hope the information is helpful - thanks very much .
Graded death benefit life insurance occupies the space between so-called `` normal policies '' and `` guaranteed issue life '' insurance , where anyone can get coverage without any medical questions or questions about lifestyle , travel , etc. . Usually , a graded benefit policy will be an `` accident only '' policy for 2 years and then a part or all the death benefit would be paid depending upon the carrier .
Graded Benefit Whole Life Insurance is whole life insurance that pays a reduced benefit during the first one to three years , then pays the full death benefit after that . E.g. . If death occurred during year one or two , it may pay back all you paid in , plus 10 % . If death occurred during year three or afterwards , it would pay the beneficiary the whole death benefit . Different policies are graded a different number of years , and each carrier has their own criteria for how much is paid back during the graded years . Most graded benefit whole life policies are only graded for natural death . I.e. death due to illness or old age . They usually pay 100 % of the death benefit from day one for accidental death . Guaranteed issue whole life policies are graded , and some simplified issue policies are graded . Simplified issue policies are those that do not require an exam . The biggest thing to watch out for with graded whole life insurance is whether the premium stays level for life . Some graded whole life policies have premiums that go up at regular intervals . With some , the company may raise the premiums at any time , as long as they do so for everyone owning that type of policy . If you anticipate living longer than a few years , it is best to buy a graded benefit whole life policy where the premium will stay level for the rest of your life . Please feel free to contact me at any time if you would like to see whether you qualify for an immediate benefit policy , or to get some competitive quotes for several graded benefit policies that have the price locked in for life .
Graded death benefit whole life insurance is permanent coverage that features an alternative structure in the first 2 or 3 years of the policy -LRB- depending on the insurance company -RRB- . The program will feature one of two graded benefit methods . 1 -RRB- Return of premium - if death occurs during the graded period , any premiums paid into the policy is given to the beneficiary . If death occurs under accidental means , then the full benefit is still payable . After the graded period has expired , the full benefit is payable regardless of whether death occurs due to illness or injury . Some carriers may offer interest on your premiums if the insured passes away during the graded period - be sure to review your policy to see if it 's under your policy . The return of premium structure is more commonly seen under graded benefit whole life policies . 2 -RRB- Reduced death benefit - if death occurs during the graded period , the coverage will payout a specific percentage of the death benefit , depending on which year during the graded period death occurs . For example , if death occurs during the first year of the policy , the carrier only pays 30 % or 35 % of the death benefit -LRB- depending on the carrier -RRB- - 70 % or 75 % if death occurs during year 2 . If death occurs under accidental means during the graded period , then the full benefit is payable . After the graded period has expired , the full benefit is payable regardless of whether death occurs by illness or injury . Under final expense policies -LRB- another name for small whole life policies with face amounts of $ 25,000 or less -RRB- , the responses to the health questions determine whether you will qualify for a level benefit -LRB- immediate full coverage -RRB- or a graded benefit . Typically , to qualify for a level benefit , all the health questions have to be answered no . Please note , just because you may not be able to answer all health questions no for one carrier 's program , does n't mean you would n't be able to answer no to all questions for a different carrier . Each insurance company has their own questions that they ask so one carrier may be able to consider a level benefit where another may not . The wording to the questions is critical to pay attention to . If you ca n't qualify for traditional final expense coverage , you always have the option for GUARANTEED ISSUE whole life . These programs do not ask any health questions whatsoever . They will feature the return of premium graded period . When buying any whole life insurance policy , be sure to remember 2 things : 1 -RRB- Do the premiums remain the same for the entire life of the policy ? - Some policies feature banded premium - meaning they go up every 5 years . They may be cheaper up front during the first couple years , but can cost significantly more over the long run . 2 -RRB- What age does the coverage carry you to ? - Some policies will only carry you to age 80 or to age 90 - and if you live beyond that age , your policy automatically terminates . It 's best to set yourself up with something that guarantees the coverage will remain in place for life -LRB- as long as you continue to pay your premiums of course -RRB- . I always suggest consulting with an independent agent who can shop the case for you and compare multiple insurance policies with your medical history to make sure you 're getting the desired coverage at the lowest possible cost . There is no cost to doing so . If you 'd like some help gathering the most accurate quotes and securing the coverage at the lowest cost , please send me an e-mail via the contact me button next to my name with your name and contact information to reach you at . I hope the information is helpful - thanks very much .
Graded benefit whole life insurance pays out a reduced death benefit during the first 1-3 years that you have the life insurance policy , for death due to illness or old age . Sometimes the death benefit starts out very low in year one , then goes up a bit in year two , and so on until the policy pays 100 % . Thus , the title , `` graded '' . Most graded life insurance policies will pay out 100 % from day one for accidental death . Graded life insurance pays back more than you paid in during the first graded years of the policy , and more than you would be able to get from a savings account . So certainly has its place for those who are unable to get a policy that pays 100 % from day one for death by any reason .
Graded life insurance policies are a way for life insurance companies to be able to offer coverage to persons who would be uninsurable otherwise . But restricting the payment of the death benefit for the first 1-3 years for death due to natural causes , graded policies help life insurance companies stay viable so they can be counted on to pay the death benefit for all their clients . Graded policies generally pay 100 % of the death benefit from day one for accidental death . For death due to illness , some pay only what you paid in plus a small % more during the first 3 years . Others pay a % of the death benefit and may only have a two year grade .
Graded life insurance means that the death benefit is graded ... `` gradually passes from one level to another '' , per the dictionary . The death benefit is not paid to the beneficiary 100 % in year one , except for accidental death . For death due to natural causes -LRB- illness -RRB- , it pays a portion of the death benefit in year one , then another portion in year two , and so on . Most policies are graded two years , but some are graded three years . Graded life insurance allows people who have a hard time getting regular life insurance to be able to get something , rather than go without .
Graded Benefit Whole Life Insurance is permanent life insurance that does not pay out the full death benefit for natural death until you have had the policy for a while . The average graded period is two years . During this time it may pay a percent of the death benefit for death due to natural causes such as illness , or it may return all you paid in plus a little extra . After 1 to 4 years , a graded policy will pay 100 % of the death benefit . They usually also pay 100 % from day one for accidental death .
Everything mentioned above is correct . You need to also consider when selecting Life Insurance for somebody that 's older the underwriting process you 'll have to go through . Depending on the benefit amount , some companies have a nonmedical underwriting process . That means mom and dad do n't have to give a blood or urine sample . You 'll see these type of plans on TV . Yet be aware of what you 're buying . Most of the TV Brands do not have guaranteed level premiums for life , or the death benefit is n't paid in full for the first two years . Allow me to explain in more detail . These plans are often called final expense Life Insurance . Generally speaking there or two ways the benefits are paid out . If your parents or in overall good health , without a major event like a heart attack or cancer in the last two years , they should be eligible for what 's called an immediate benefit . Once the policies approved the death benefit is available the next day . The other type is called a graded benefit -LRB- or call date modified benefit in some cases -RRB- . Again , generally speaking , most of these plans have a limited payout the first two years of policy is in force . Some pay a percentage of the death benefit while others refund all your premiums plus an interest rate . These plans are great if mom and dad are in poor health . Some applications have zero medical questions . I often see where someone is sold a graded benefit when they could have received a level benefit with a different carrier . Underwriting is the key factor ! If your parents are in good health they may want to consider a fully underwritten policy . That typically includes a small medical exam . Think of it this way , the deeper the carrier looks into somebody 's health , the better their rate for the same benefit will be . Then there 's the whole question of what type of insurance to get . Whole Life -LRB- which is what the Final expense plans are -RRB- , Term , or Universal Life . The Orman 's and Ramsey 's of the world will tell you to buy nothing else than term . . ever , ever , ever ... . I 'm not going to debate that now . Just going to say they are hurting a lot of people with such narrow , cookie cutter advice . ALL life insurance types have a time & place . If you have further questions ... Reach out . Honored to help ... - gravy .
Whole Life and Universal Life are the two main types of permanent insurance coverage -LRB- there are sub-categories with in that - e.g. guaranteed universal life , current assumption universal life , indexed universal life , participating whole life , non-participating whole life , and others -RRB- . Permanent life insurance , in general , is designed to provide coverage for the rest of the insured 's life and build cash value . Universal life insurance features a flexible premium structure It 's , in short , a blend between term life insurance and whole life insurance . A universal life policy will guarantee the maximum death benefit for the lowest possible premium -LRB- making it much less expensive than a whole life policy with the same death benefit -RRB- . Like with whole life insurance , universal life will build cash value , although it will generally not accumulate as much cash value over the life of the policy as a comparable whole life policy it is essentially term insurance to age 121 , with the emphasis on a larger death benefit instead of greater cash value for the premium that you are paying . Universal life is ideal for anyone who wants to maximize the death benefit and is n't worried about building cash value . You can guarantee benefits up to age 121 -LRB- with most companies -RRB- - these policies can be structured to dial down the death benefit to a specific age as well -LRB- e.g. to age 90 , 95 , 100 , 105 , etc. -RRB- , which can reduce your premium by a good margin . Whole life insurance is a great vehicle for planning for the future . The premiums and death benefit remain fixed and guaranteed for life while the policy can build cash value at a great rate - this structure is known as a non-participating whole life policy . The other type is called participating whole life policy . Participating WL policies can pay out dividends which can be used in several ways : 1 -RRB- Decrease the premium - the premium would eventually hit $ 0 at some point and the policy would , in essence , be self-sustaining meaning the dividend is equal to or greater than the premium for the program -LRB- if greater , the difference can be used to increase the cash value or increase the death benefit -RRB- 2 -RRB- Purchasing paid-up additions - these additions increase the face amount of the policy 3 -RRB- Increase the cash value at a faster rate While whole life has many advantages , it is also the most expensive form of life insurance . Whole life features level premiums and death benefits and builds cash value at a faster rate than Universal life policies - the trade off between is that to increase the cash value faster , the premiums will be substantially higher -LRB- can often be 2-3x the premiums of guaranteed universal life policies on many occasions -RRB- . Please note , regardless of the permanent coverage type , the carrier takes back the cash value upon the death of the insured , and pays out the death benefit proceeds . Therefore , guaranteed Universal life policies allow you to maximize your death benefit and minimize your premium dollars that you pay for the coverage . I hope the information is helpful - please feel free to contact me for assistance with your life insurance coverage needs , including quotes and policy comparisons , and if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
Whole Life and Universal Life are the two main types of permanent insurance coverage -LRB- there are sub-categories with in that - e.g. guaranteed universal life , current assumption universal life , indexed universal life , participating whole life , non-participating whole life , and others -RRB- . Permanent life insurance , in general , is designed to provide coverage for the rest of the insured 's life and build cash value . Universal life insurance features a flexible premium structure It 's , in short , a blend between term life insurance and whole life insurance . A universal life policy will guarantee the maximum death benefit for the lowest possible premium -LRB- making it much less expensive than a whole life policy with the same death benefit -RRB- . Like with whole life insurance , universal life will build cash value , although it will generally not accumulate as much cash value over the life of the policy as a comparable whole life policy it is essentially term insurance to age 121 , with the emphasis on a larger death benefit instead of greater cash value for the premium that you are paying . Universal life is ideal for anyone who wants to maximize the death benefit and is n't worried about building cash value . You can guarantee benefits up to age 121 -LRB- with most companies -RRB- - these policies can be structured to dial down the death benefit to a specific age as well -LRB- e.g. to age 90 , 95 , 100 , 105 , etc. -RRB- , which can reduce your premium by a good margin . Whole life insurance is a great vehicle for planning for the future . The premiums and death benefit remain fixed and guaranteed for life while the policy can build cash value at a great rate - this structure is known as a non-participating whole life policy . The other type is called participating whole life policy . Participating WL policies can pay out dividends which can be used in several ways : 1 -RRB- Decrease the premium - the premium would eventually hit $ 0 at some point and the policy would , in essence , be self-sustaining meaning the dividend is equal to or greater than the premium for the program -LRB- if greater , the difference can be used to increase the cash value or increase the death benefit -RRB- 2 -RRB- Purchasing paid-up additions - these additions increase the face amount of the policy 3 -RRB- Increase the cash value at a faster rate While whole life has many advantages , it is also the most expensive form of life insurance . Whole life features level premiums and death benefits and builds cash value at a faster rate than Universal life policies - the trade off between is that to increase the cash value faster , the premiums will be substantially higher -LRB- can often be 2-3x the premiums of guaranteed universal life policies on many occasions -RRB- . Please note , regardless of the permanent coverage type , the carrier takes back the cash value upon the death of the insured , and pays out the death benefit proceeds . Therefore , guaranteed Universal life policies allow you to maximize your death benefit and minimize your premium dollars that you pay for the coverage . I hope the information is helpful - please feel free to contact me for assistance with your coverage and if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
A graded whole-Life insurance policy is intended for people in pretty bad health who ca n't qualify for a full benefit policy . If you have a graded policy for $ 10,000 and died during the first 12-months , it would usually pay only 30 % of the death benefit or $ 3,000 If you died during month 13-24 it would usually pay 70 % or $ 7,000 After 24-months it would pay the full $ 10,000 Before you sign up for a graded benefit policy , make certain that you have a very experienced agent review your options . Many people sign up for a graded policy after one or two companies turn them down for full benefit . An experienced agent can check your health against dozens of companies and often get you approved at full benefit and a lower premium .
A graded benefit Whole Life insurance policy is one that pays a limited benefit during the first years . Most policies are graded from 1-3 years and most limit the graded part to natural death -LRB- death due to illness or old age -RRB- . These policies usually pay 100 % from day one for accidental death .
If you are currently being treated for cancer , you will not be able to qualify for any term life insurance . Carriers will only consider coverage after the completion of your cancer treatment . From there , most carriers will have a postponement period of at least 2 years -LRB- most prefer 4-5 years -RRB- from the point the cancer treatment was completed . If you apply for term insurance after this window and can qualify for it , you will likely be assigned a table-rating for your coverage -LRB- a table-rating is a percentage increase in premium on the standard risk classification - you can be rated table 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 , 7 , or 8 . Some carriers will offer table ratings up to table 10 or 12 , but few do . Table ratings can also be cited as letters - table A , B , C , D , E , F , G , H , etc. -RRB- . The more time that has passed since the cancer episode , the better risk class you can qualify for because there is a less likelihood of a reoccurrence of the cancer . During this period , the only life insurance coverage you would be able to secure is Guaranteed Issue Whole Life insurance . These are final expense policies that feature face amounts of $ 25,000 or less and have a graded benefit period . A graded benefit period is a 2-3 year window -LRB- depends on the carrier - most are 2 years -RRB- where if death occurs during the graded period , the carrier pays only the premiums that were paid into the policy -LRB- unless the death occurred under accidental means - when this happens , the full benefit is payable -RRB- . After the graded period has expired , the full benefit is payable regardless of cause of death . I hope the information is helpful - please feel free to contact me for help with your coverage , including quotes and plan comparisons , and if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
Yes , life insurance does pay for natural death -LRB- death due to natural causes such as illness or old age -RRB- . Accidental death insurance does not pay for natural death . Graded life insurance policies will pay a reduced amount for the first 1-3 years for natural death , depending on the features of the policy . After the graded period has passed , graded policies will also pay 100 % for death due to any reason , including natural death .
If you 're uninsurable for traditionally underwritten programs -LRB- full underwriting with an exam , non-medical , simplified issue , etc. -RRB- , you always have the option for guaranteed issue whole life insurance . These products are typically your last resort insurance . They generally feature the highest rates because there are no medical questions and no exams to complete . The face amount for coverage is generally limited to a maximum of $ 25,000 and the policies will come with a `` graded '' death benefit . A graded death benefit is , in short , a 2 year waiting period -LRB- with most GIWL programs - some feature a 3-year period -RRB- . If death occurs in the first 2 years , the premiums paid into the policy are paid out to the beneficiary -LRB- unless death is accidental , then the full benefit is payable -RRB- . If death occurs after the beginning of year 3 , then the full benefit will be paid out .
Graded Benefit Whole Life Insurance is an increasing stepped up premium that as a level death benefit in guaranteed issue policies . It also can be a participating graded premium whole life policy that starts out with a gradual step up in premium and then levels our on the future . Participating whole life products use declared dividends to pay premium or limit the payments if the dividend is large enough .
If you are in the midst of cancer treatments , unfortunately , it is difficult to get life insurance . If you are over age 45 , there are guaranteed issue policies that you can get . They pay 100 % of the death benefit from day one for accidental death . For death by natural causes -LRB- any type of illness -RRB- , they have a graded period for 2-3 years in which they will pay a portion of the death benefit . After the graded period , they will pay the full death benefit . A year or two after your last treatment , you can get a simplified issue policy that may or may not be graded . And the longer you are cancer free , the more options you have . My recommendation is to get whatever coverage you can , and then replace it with less expensive life insurance with better features as you become eligible for them . Everyone 's hope is that you will eventually be able to get a regular policy for whatever amount you wish , because you will be a cancer survivor .
end question
start question
disability-insurance
What Qualifies For Disability Insurance ?
You have to have earned income to qualify for disability insurance as well as good health history and current medical condition . Disability insurance is an important employee benefit for key executives in any organization . Bottom line , disability insurance is paycheck insurance . Protecting your income , either with with tax free or taxable benefits is a great retention and recruiting tool for a business .
If you think you might qualify for Medicare due to a disability , you should first file for disability benefits through the Social Security Administration . If approved , you may be able to get Medicare prior to age 65 due to a disability . In order to qualify for Medicare due to a disability , you must meet the criteria defined by the Social Security Administration : `` Social Security pays only for total disability . No benefits are payable for partial disability or for short-term disability . `` Disability '' under Social Security is based on your inability to work . We consider you disabled under Social Security rules if : You can not do work that you did before ; We decide that you can not adjust to other work because of your medical condition -LRB- s -RRB- ; and Your disability has lasted or is expected to last for at least one year or to result in death '' . You can apply for benefits through Medicare because of a disability online at : WEBSITELINK if you are tech savvy . If you choose not to apply online , you can apply at any local Social Security Administration office by phone or in person and you can call ahead to make an appointment by calling 1-800-772-1213 . If you are deaf or hearing impaired , call the SSA 's toll-free TTY number , 1-800-325-0778 . Their representatives are available from 7AM to 7PM , Monday through Friday . It is important to note that this definition of disability `` is different than other programs '' and `` is a strict definition of disability '' according to the Social Security Administration . There are many , more comprehensive disability policies available which allow benefits to be paid for a partial disability , for example , or pay benefits to help with various expenses such as paying your mortgage in the event that you suffer a disability . In addition , these policies can be purchased for key people in a business such as a business partner or profitable executive . For questions regarding which disability policy may be best for you or how much coverage you may need , it is best to speak with an Insurance Professional . They are highly trained in the business of Insurance , and will complete a full analysis of your needs and make recommendations based on what 's in your best interest . An Insurance Professional is a great resource for any other programs and products that may be of benefit to you including state and federal resources that you may qualify for based on your unique situation such as applying for Disability through the Social Security Administration . There is a reason they are so highly trained and regulated ! Resources : www.ssa.gov
I would say yes . Your ability to earn income is likely your biggest asset , so what would you do if you lost that ability ? Some important things think about when trying to figure out if disability insurance is right for you is : 1 -RRB- If you became disabled , could you continue to pay your bills -LRB- mortgage payments , car payments , credit card payments , etc. -RRB- ? 2 -RRB- How long would your savings last ? 3 -RRB- Would you still be able to retire when you planned or send your children to college ? 4 -RRB- What happens to your bonus compensation and retirement contributions ? Could you keep paying the overhead expenses if you own a business ? Most disabilities are not work related and therefore not covered by workers compensation and it can be very difficult to qualify for social security disability as many disability claims are denied - even if you are approved for Social Security , the payments will probably be significantly less than you earn . Disability insurance can protect you from losing your income and is one of the most important types of insurance you can buy , especially for business owners , key employees , physicians , attorneys , and anyone who has family that depends on their ability to provide income . A big advantage with disability insurance is that when you have a qualifying claim that triggers disability payments , the monies paid to you are paid as tax-free income -LRB- as long as you paid the prmeiums with your after tax dollars - most people do -RRB- . Please note , when you 're looking to purchase disability insurance , work with an experienced , independent disability insurance agent who can work with you on a personal level to help you determine what program is suitable to your needs and budget -LRB- disability insurance policies are very customizable -RRB- . Make sure you pay attention to the language in the policy - most importantly the definition of disability . The definition of disability is the most important aspect of your disability insurance policy and you want to secure the best definition you can -LRB- `` true own occupation '' is very much regarded as the best definition you can have -RRB- . I hope the information is helpful - please feel free to contact me for assistance with your disability insurance needs , including quotes and program comparisons , and if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
What to look for in Disability Insurance ? While there are many options to consider with disability insurance , a `` good '' disability policy comes down to one defining sentence . The most important thing is `` the definition of what disability IS . '' You see payment from a disability plan all comes down to what qualifies as a disability based on the definition of disability in the contract -LRB- policy -RRB- . If it is not simple and straight forward in this definition , you might want to look elsewhere . Pretty much beyond the first couple sentences about the definition of disability in a DI policy are terms where they take away from the definition , they exclude and make exceptions . The best policies are straight forward without a lot of fluff when it comes to that definition . And with a disability policy , words are everything .
An excellent question and one to which the answer will vary upon the purpose of the disability insurance policy for which the sole proprietor purchased the coverage . Most people only think about disability insurance for purposes of replacing their personal income during a period of disability . However , for business owners there is often the additional need to protect themselves in regard to the fixed expenses of their business that will continue regardless of whether or not the sole proprietor can work and generate income . The rent/lease for office space , utilities and other such business expenses are examples . If the disability insurance policy is taken out specifically to reimburse a sole proprietor for overhead expenses incurred during a period of disability then the cost of the disability policy is considered an ordinary and necessary business expense and would qualify as a deductible business expense . To qualify the policy must state specifically that the policy proceeds are to be used to cover business expenses during the period of disability . This is separate and distinct from a disability insurance policy a sole proprietor might want to take out to replace their income . Deducting this type of disability policy as a business expense is not a good idea as I do n't believe it meets the IRS criteria and if you did deduct such a disability policy as a business expenses it is highly likely that in the event of a disability claim the policyholder would have to pay income taxes on their disability insurance payments and thus reduce the net income amount the sole proprietor would receive during their disability period .
Yes , disability insurance is really paycheck insurance and protects your income stream in the event an accident or illness prevents you from working . There are two type of disability insurance ; Short Term & Long Term disability . Short term plans usually cover periods of 13 or 26 weeks . Long Term plans , as their name implies , run for longer terms that can go on for years depending upon the policy . It is estimated that a 20 year old has a 25 % chance of being disabled for some period of time before they reach retirement age . Currently 12 % of the U.S. population is disabled with only 5 % of those disabilities being work related . So , a health problem or off the job accident is the most likely cause of someone becoming disabled . A recent report shows the average Social Security Disability payment is $ 1065 per month and qualifying for Social Security disability is famous for being difficult and time consuming with waits of 2 years for approval not being uncommon and as of 2009 , only 30 % of Social Security disability claims were approved . Relying on Social Security alone to preserve your lifestyle in the event of a disability is unwise . The majority of persons who experience a disabling event can return to work within about 90-days . But , for persons who experience a disability exceeding 90-days the average length of these types of disabling events is 3.2 years ! Ideally , a person will have both short term and long term disability insurance protection . Short term disability insurance will be less expensive and if your budget does n't allow for both coverages I would suggest starting out with short term coverage for the longest coverage period possible . If you are a female I would also recommend that you verify how a prospective short term disability policy treats maternity . Some policies treat maternity as a disabling event while others do not . This can be an important difference for a woman in her child bearing years .
Determining whether a disability will qualify you for a claim depends upon the policy 's `` definition of disability '' . It 's not something where one type of disability is covered and another may not be just because it 's a different kind . It 's about whether your specific disability is covered under policy 's definition of disability . The definition of disability is the most important factor under any disability insurance policy . A disability insurance policy will have 1 of 3 definition options -LRB- varies by carrier - some may only offer one definition , others may offer more than one as it would then depend upon type of disability policy being set up -LRB- e.g. long-term vs. short-term , group vs. individual , etc. -RRB- -RRB- - 1 -RRB- True Own Occupation , 2 -RRB- Modified Own Occupation , and 3 -RRB- Gainful Occupation . True Own Occupation is the most desirable definition you can have on a disability policy . This says that you are considered completely disabled if -LRB- due to injury or sickness -RRB- you are not able to perform the duties of your job , EVEN IF YOU ARE WORKING AT ANOTHER JOB -LRB- this last part is key ! -RRB- . Modified Own Occupation is the most common definition that policies offer in today 's marketplace . Under this definition , you are completely disabled if -LRB- due to injury or sickness -RRB- you are not able to perform the duties of your job , AND ARE NOT WORKING IN ANY OTHER JOB -LRB- again , this last part is key ! -RRB- . Gainful Occupation is typically seen in group disability policies and policies offered by property and casualty companies that offer disability policies . This definition is the most stringent saying that you ca n't work in your own occupation and unable to work in any gainful occupation for a period of time -LRB- e.g. 12 months , 24 months , etc. - can vary by company -RRB- . Also , whether you want to buy a short-term disability policy or a long-term disability policy is important too . You can have a combination of both . I would recommend reviewing your needs and goals with an independent agent who works with multiple carriers and can help determine the program structure that will best serve your needs because disability policies are very customizable as there are a number of additional options to choose from that affect the rates . It 's not a `` just pick and choose who has the lowest rates '' type of insurance - you really want to make sure you 've got the right coverage for what you 're trying to accomplish . I hope the information is helpful - please feel free to contact me for help with your coverage and if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
NOW ... hehehe . You ca n't get DI soon enough . Yet the question can be changed to , `` Will I qualify for DI & should I consider additional options ? '' Will you qualify >> Di underwriting is pretty messy . Where you work , how long you 've been there , what you DO , what you make , your health , your lifestyle , & much more will determine the carrier you should apply with , what benefit length & amount you 'll receive , & what `` health tier '' you 'll receive . Although there is a LOT to gather for a disability quote , an experience , independent agent should make it a smooth process . I Might just know one ! Additional Options >> > simply said , the reason for buying a DI plan is to replace lost income if you are not able to work . Yet allow me to point out a issues that stump the DI process : What if you do n't `` earn an income ? Such as a stay at home parent . Maybe you just entered the work force or started a completely different career & you have no `` income history '' . Lower income earners face the challenge that most DI plans only replace up to 60 % of their income while out on a claim . They 're already having a rough time making ends meet ... & now the income is down 40 % ??? OUCH . `` So Gravy . What can we do in addition to or instead of DI ? '' ... Great question . Thanks for asking :--RRB- DI is a great foundation for anyone who earns an income . Yet consider other protection plans in addition to , or instead of , a standalone DI Plan . > Critical Illness : Receive a single payment of $ 5,000 , $ 10,000 , $ 50,000 , or as much as $ 500,000 upon DIAGNOSIS of a specified disease or condition . Fantastic protection for everyone ... Yet in this post , Low/No income wage earners should definitely consider this . > Hybrid / Living Benefits Life insurance : There are various life products that have either rides or acceleration of benefits for Disability & / or Critical Illness . As an example , I have a client that is young , modest income , & decided that a single plan with life , disability , & critical illness benefits . She 's hedged her bets with a single policy that covers multiple areas . When to buy & what is the best disability plan ??? Your specific situation will determine that . When you speak to an agent , I hope ALL your options are discussed .
If you qualify for Social Security Disability and are disabled for two years you will qualify for Medicare . I have many clients on Medicare and Social Security Disability . The key here is Social Security Disability . If you are collecting on a private disability policy and you are not yet on Social Security Disability then you can not get Medicare .
When reviewing your disability insurance options , you should be sure to understand the differences between company contracts . With disability insurance , the key to the contract is the definition of disability and definition and requirements of the policy benefits . All disability contracts are NOT created equal . When you 're buying a disability policy , the MOST important factor in the policy structure is theDEFINITION OF DISABILITY.Each policy will use 1 of the 3 definitions : 1 -RRB- True Own Occupation - this says you are considered totally disabled if , solely due to injury or sickness , you are not able to perform the material and substantial duties of your occupation , even if you are at work in another occupation . In short , this is the most favorable definition you can have . Guardian offers this definition and is our group 's top disability company to write business with . 2 -RRB- Modified Own Occupation - this says that you are considered totally disabled if , solely due to injury or sickness , you are not able to perform the material and substantial duties of your occupation . This one is commonly seen in many individual disability insurance policies . 3 -RRB- Gainful Occupation - this says if you are unable to perform the duties of your occupation or any occupation for which you are qualified for by education , training , or experience due to sickness or injury . In short , this is the least favorable definition . This one is commonly seen in group disability insurance policies through an employer and property and casualty insurers that offer disability coverage . Disability insurance depends on a number of factors . The cost -LRB- your premium -RRB- is based on a number of factors - the most important being your medical history , your job , and your income - and the policies are very customizable . There are many moving parts to disability insurance and is not something I would suggest trying to buy on your own - this is a type of coverage you should consult with an experienced independent disability insurance broker about . I hope the information is helpful - please feel free to contact me for help with your coverage and if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
Every insurance company has different criteria for their Disability policies . So you would need to review the fine print of each policy to see what causes of disability , or what levels of disability , each policy excludes . Some things that different Disability insurance policies might not cover , or might limit coverage for , are disability due to mental or nervous disorders -LRB- some put a two year limit on those benefits -RRB- , disability due to drug or alcohol abuse -LRB- some put a one year limit on those benefits -RRB- , disability caused while committing a crime -LRB- this is usually not covered at all -RRB- , or disability caused by acts of war . Some policies also will cover total or permanent disability , but not partial or residual disability . Again , it is important to shop around and purchase a policy with the features that are most likely to be used , but also pick and choose so that you get a rate you can afford .
What type of disability insurance should I get ? The one that provides you the best definiton of disability that you can afford . Disability insurance is all about the definition of what is a `` disability '' . What you 'll find is the best disability plans have the fewest words in describing what disability is . Without a solid definition , you have a policy you pay for , that does n't pay you back when you have a claim .
When considering a disability policy to purchase , consider everything , but focus on a couple of things . 1st , the easiest way to find out what the policy would n't cover is spelled out on the exceptions page or not covered section . Straight forward it will state directly what the policy wo n't do . 2nd , read their definition of disability . This may sound strange to read , but the best policies for disabilities have the shortest definitions of disability . Basically when you read the definition , anything beyond that first sentence is something that will reduce your benefit . For example , my disability policy defines total disability as `` not being able to do your current job and under a doctors care . '' That 's it , that 's all . Nothing follows it . It does n't care if I can do my job or another , just my current job . End of story . Also , when you consider a DI policy look at residual coverage . Residual is for partial disabilities where you can work , but not as much as before . It will have a similar definition as total disability , but will define by percentage of work you can or ca n't do . So half time would be 50 % loss . A good residual definition will also determine at what point partial becomes fully . I write this as I am on claim on my own disability policies . I contracted an infection that lead to an amputation . Believe me , a good policy does n't present you with too many hoops or requirements to meet .
Disability insurance protects one of your greatest assets - your ability to work.If you ca n't work because of an injury or illness , how do you provide income for you and your family . The answer ? Your disability insurance . When you 're buying a disability policy , the MOST important factor in the policy structure is theDEFINITION OF DISABILITY.Each policy will use 1 of the 3 definitions : 1 -RRB- True Own Occupation - this says you are considered totally disabled if , solely due to injury or sickness , you are not able to perform the material and substantial duties of your occupation , even if you are at work in another occupation . In short , this is the most favorable definition you can have . 2 -RRB- Modified Own Occupation - this says that you are considered totally disabled if , solely due to injury or sickness , you are not able to perform the material and substantial duties of your occupation . This one is commonly seen in many individual disability insurance policies . 3 -RRB- Gainful Occupation - this says if you are unable to perform the duties of your occupation or any occupation for which you are qualified for by education , training , or experience due to sickness or injury . In short , this is the least favorable definition . This one is commonly seen in group disability insurance policies through an employer and property and casualty insurers that offer disability coverage . Disability insurance depends on a number of factors . The cost -LRB- your premium -RRB- is based on a number of factors - the most important being your medical history , your job , and your income - and the policies are very customizable . There are many moving parts to disability insurance and is not something I would suggest trying to buy on your own - this is a type of coverage you should consult with an experienced independent disability insurance broker about . I hope the information is helpful - please feel free to contact me for help with your coverage and if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
A qualified beneficiary must notify the plan administrator of a qualifying event within 60 days after divorce or legal separation or a child 's ceasing to be covered as a dependent under plan rules . Plan participants and beneficiaries generally must be sent an election notice not later than 14 days after the plan administrator receives notice that a qualifying event has occurred . The individual then has 60 days to decide whether to elect COBRA continuation coverage . The person has 45 days after electing coverage to pay the initial premium . Qualified beneficiaries must be given an election period during which each qualified beneficiary may choose whether to elect COBRA coverage . Each qualified beneficiary may independently elect COBRA coverage . A covered employee or the covered employee 's spouse may elect COBRA coverage on behalf of all other qualified beneficiaries . A parent or legal guardian may elect on behalf of a minor child . Qualified beneficiaries must be given at least 60 days for the election . This period is measured from the later of the coverage loss date or the date the COBRA election notice is provided by the employer or plan administrator . The election notice must be provided in person or by first class mail within 14 days after the plan administrator receives notice that a qualifying event has occurred .
You need disability insurance as `` paycheck protection '' . You should look at your current monthly budget and determine what needs to be covered if you were to lose your paycheck due to an accident or illness . 1 in 4 20 year olds will go on disability before they retire from work . You should look at the your expenses and determine what is the net amount of income that I could get by on . Many people have disability insurance through their employeer . You have to be careful because this policy is usually paid `` pretex '' and is taxed upon your drawing income . You need to check your employeers policy to determine what your benefits are for disability . Business Owners can get a disability policy to pay for their business income . What would happen to your business if you could not do what you do daily to generate income . Would you need to hire somebody ? You can get a policy to cover this . Would your business stop working and revenue dries up ? You may be able to cover this . You need to work with an independent agent to compare the rates and benefits of multiple companies as they treat each situation different . An example would be a Physician who might be offered more income during their disability with a particular company . You would need to check to see if you receive benefits if you can not work your current profession versus working at anything . All paychecks need protection . You should have your evaluated and deceide how you would do if you became disabled .
Non-qualified retirement plans are not sanctioned for the tax deduction like qualified plans are under ERISA . Non-qualified retirement plans generally use annuities and life insurance . Annuities can be used in qualified plans , but life insurance can not . Non-qualified and qualified retirement plans using annuities , for an example , accumulate tax deferred , but the basis of a non-qualified annuity is distributed free of taxation , whereas qualified annuities are fully taxable including basis .
As with so many things in life , the answer is `` it depends '' . If you are talking about Social Security disability benefits it will depend upon the type of disability benefit you are receiving . Supplemental Security Income -LRB- SSI -RRB- disability benefits , which are for certain low income individuals e.g. - blind , aged , disabled and below certain income thresholds -RRB- who do not qualify for regular Social Security Disability can not have their SSI payments garnished for child support . On the other hand , standard Social Security Disability payments can be garnished to meet child support obligations . While it is much more complicated , it is also possible that a portion of VA disability benefits can be garnished for child support . Finally , if you are receiving disability payments through an individual or group disability insurance policy those payments can be garnished for child support purposes though the specifics vary from state to state .
To qualify for Disability Insurance , applicants need to show that they do not have an exceptionally high risk of becoming disabled . Having a health condition that lends itself to becoming disabled , even though the risk of death is very low -LRB- e.g. MS -RRB- will make it difficult to get a Disability Insurance policy . The applicant must also earn an income . Stay at home workers who are not compensated are unable to qualify for disability insurance .
There are several options to get health insurance while on disability . Your employer plan must be continued on the same basis as when you were working for up to twelve weeks if subject to FMLA . After that you can purchase the employer plan through COBRA . You can purchase a policy through a state exchange outside of open enrollment if you qualify for a special open enrollment based upon your qualifying life event -LRB- loss of job qualifies -RRB- . Or , you may have to wait for the annual open enrollment . You may qualify for premium and cost sharing subsidies based upon your lower income while disabled . You may also qualify for Medicaid . The rules vary by state based upon whether your state adopted the ACA expansion .
end question
start question
health-insurance
How Do You Buy Health Insurance In Illinois ?
You can get health coverage through healthcare.gov on your own or go through a licenesed agent . We at WEBSITELINK have helped millions obtain coverage . You need to find out what you qualify for if your eligible to get tax credits . You can obtain coverage during the open enrollment period . After that , you have to wait until Novemeber 2014 to enroll in a plan during open enrollment . You maybe eligible to enroll outside the open enrollment period if you have experienced a qualifying life event . If you do not have a qualifying life event during the SEP -LRB- Special Enrollment Period -RRB- you may opt to obtain a short term plan to bridge the gap until the next open enrollment period in Novemeber .
Great question ! There are a couple of ways . Bear in mind that there is an annual open enrollment period once a year in the fall when you can sign up . The rest of the year , the enrollment is closed , unless you have a major life change , such as a change in employment , get dropped by previous coverage , get married or divorced , for example . When you shop , you can either enroll in your employers -LRB- or your spouses -RRB- plan ; you can seek out a private company to purchase from , or you can go to healthcare.gov to shop . The benefit of the Government website is that you may qualify for a discount offered on that site . If you need help , please contact me , okay ? Thanks for asking !
In Illinois damage to the car you are driving caused by a hit and run driver is covered under the collision portion of the policy insuring the vehicle . Again in Illinois , when you have no collision coverage , uninsured motorist property damage coverage is available , but applicable only when it can be verified that the at-fault driver has no insuance . If you are hurt , your medical coverage would apply . Uninsured motorist coverage for your financial loss as a result of injury is included in Illinois auto insurance , but again would require verification that the other party is not insured . Check with your agent . Laws vary by state .
Life insurance agents ' wages vary widely in Illinois , as they do across the nation . If the agent has a lot of high wealth clients and can sell a large range of products , they can make hundreds of thousands of dollars . On the other hand , many agents in Illinois and other states are unable to make a living in that career . How much you make depends on hard you work , who you know , and getting some breaks .
Yes , to sell life insurance in Illinois , you do need a license . If you are not working with variable products , a life insurance license offered through your state 's Dept of Insurance is sufficient . You will need to study for it and pass a test in order to get a life insurance license in Illinois .
When you ask which life insurance is best in Illinois there are a lot of thing to consider . First of all why are you buying the policy ? Are you buying it to pay your house off if you die , to pay for a funeral , to leave your family with extra money to help them re-adjust their life after you die or are you buying it as a retirement vehicle to replace your 401K . When you figure outthe why , then we can start to narrow down which company has that type of insurance to meet your needs . My years of experience has taught methat there is no one company that can meet all the individual needs of every person . I always look at the WHY first , then I can educate you on the different companies that could fit your needs . If you need more help feel free to Skype me or call 630-918-1673
No , Life Insurance is not mandatory in Illinois . There is no state or federal law that mandates that people purchase life insurance . Sometimes the court or a lending company , e.g. , may require that an individual purchase life insurance as part of a divorce settlement or to protect a loan . But the state of Illinois does not mandate purchasing life insurance .
In Illinois , as in every other state , life insurance is not taxable to the beneficiary for income tax . The only portion of life insurance that may be charged income tax is excessive cash value . Estate taxes may need to be paid from the proceeds if there is a very large estate . Otherwise , life insurance proceeds are not usually taxable to the beneficiary in Illinois .
Progress does offer mobile home insurance . Their coverages and prices are usually very good . Progressive only offers mobile home insurance through independent agents in 8 states : Illinois , Indiana , Iowa , Minnesota , Missouri , Nebraska , Ohio and Wisconsin . However , you can buy Progressive mobile home insurance directly from Progressive in every state except Alaska , Florida , Hawaii and D.C. .
There are a lot of major carriers that sell long term disability insurance . Just to name a few of the larger carriers are Metlife , Assurity , Principal Mutual , The Standard , Illinois Mutual , Guardian and Mass Mutual . I recommend using an experienced independent disability broker that can professionally shop the market as there are a lot of moving parts to buying disability insurance . It is easy for a novice to make a mistake .
Ordinarily you would need at leastone parent or guardian on a policy with children . There are some exceptions such as state sponsored programs for children only . For instance Illinois has a program called All Kids that provides health insurance to low income families without health insurance . Parents may qualify for similar programs too .
Yes , Fidelity sells life insurance through Fidelity Life Association . The company was established in 1896 as a fraternal benefit society in the state of Illinois . They are licensed to sell life insurance in all the states except Washington and New York . They sell to both individuals and groups . Their products include Term , Universal , and Whole Life Insurance , many of which do not require an exam .
The Illinois Department of Insurance is the regulatory body that oversees not just the insurance carrier but also the insurance agents . If you have complaints or questions then the best way to contact them is : WEBSITELINK You will find a contact us link at this link to assist you with your questions .
Because it 's not going to happen to them and it 's expensive . But the truth is the cost of the coverage is not nearly as expensive as the average cost of care and there is a pretty darned good chance they WILL need care . Roughly 70 % of people over 65 will need long term care services in their lifetime , 40 % of people currently receiving long term care services are aged 10-64 ! Average home health care expenses in Illinois average over $ 45,000 while a semi-private room averages around $ 70,000 , FAR more than the cost of the coverage to pay for it .
According to the National Association of Insurance Commisioners -LRB- NAIC -RRB- the following are the top 10 Health Insurance Companies : 1 . United Healthcare 2 . Wellpoint Inc. . Group -LRB- Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association serving members in California , Colorado , Connecticut , Georgia , Indiana , Kentucky , Maine , Missouri , Nevada , New Hampshire , New York , Ohio , Virginia and Wisconsin -RRB- 3 . Kaiser Foundation 4 . Aetna Group 5 . Humana 6 . HCSC -LRB- Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Texas , New Mexico , Illinois , Oklahoma -RRB- 7 . Coventry Corp. . Group -LRB- although they were purchased by Aetna -RRB- 8 . Highmark Group -LRB- Blue Cross Blue Shield of Pennsylvania and other companies -RRB- 9 . Independence Group 10 . Blue Shield of California
This is a Good Question . Typically if your card is not automatically sent to you 3 months before your 65th birthday , you can apply online at the social security or Medicare site , you can also go to your local social security office . If you are working still , you may be able to defer part B . If you are in the Illinois , Kentucky , Arizona , Florida , Hawaii , Michigan , Montana , New Mexico or Wyoming , you can contact me ; otherwise contact a broker in your area to help you with all your options .
Yes . You can cancel your car insurance at any time . The question that you may want to know before cancelling is whether your insurance company pro-rates or short-rates your cancellation . A pro-rated cancellation is more favorable for you since you are charged only for the days that have been used . In Illinois , the insurance companies by law have to pro-rate an auto cancellation .
In Illinois , the vehicle one is driving must be insured or a fine may be imposed . So in that regard , no , the policy does not need to be in your name . However if you own the vehicle you are likely going to be legally responsible for any incident involving its use , so you would certainly want to be named on the insurance contract .
There is a company called `` Illinois Mutual '' that has a great Disability policy that gives you the option of the Return of Premium Rider . This is an important rider to look for that will give you all the money you paid into the policy back to you if you never have to make a claim . I am in MN and would love to help . Brad @ 651.300.0788
To compare Long Term Care Insurance quotes in Illinois , contact one of the contributors on this board who write about Long Term Care Insurance , or get a referral from someone you trust . When you are given long term care insurance quotes , they will be presented in a grid that compares the features and rates of at least 2-3 of your best options . With someone explaining those , it makes the process much simpler than you might think .
end question
start question
long-term-care-insurance
Can Employers Deduct Long Term Care Insurance Premiums ?
Employers can deduct premiums paid on behalf of their employees for long term care insurance . This is a great benefit to provide employees as it secures loyalty to the employer . Individuals can deduct premiums on individual plans as well . When benefits are received those benefits are not considered ordinary income .
Maybe one should not get long-term care insurance . Let 's start there . If an individual or a family has a sizeable estate that either is liquid or can be liquidated and be made readily available to pay for the cost of long-term care , maybe long-term care is n't needed . If , on the other extreme , you have a very small estate comprised of no real estate and very little personal property of any worth and will rely almost entirely on Social Security in retirement , you ca n't afford long-term care premiums , now or in the future . You will have to have a plan , however , in case you do need long-term care . A family discussion around the topic should be scheduled so that those that might become either temporary or permanent caregivers are fully apprised of the responsibilities and sacrifices that may have to be made . Medicaid qualification should be fully investigated and the benefits and limitations understood . People buy long-term care for roughly the same reason they buy life insurance . One buys life insurance because they care about the financial security of those that are left behind . One buys long-term care insurancebecause they care about those that might have to take care of them if they ca n't take care of themselves . Long-term care costs are not covered by conventional health insurance , Medicare , and most Medicare supplement insurance . They can be very expensive , especially ifthe elderly person lives a long-period of time in a state of incapacity . Caregivers will be spouses and adult children are likely to be caregivers whether one owns long-term care insurance or not . Long-term care insurance is for caregivers . It gives them choices about the quality of care that can be afforded and whether they can be relieved of some of the responsibility for caregiving . Many elderly spouses of those that ca n't take care of themselves become disabled themselves because of the emotional and psychological energy expended in caregiving . Adult children sometimes get caught in a conflict over eldercare and parenting growing children . Long-term care insurance provides income-tax-free money to hire trained individuals to care for loved ones . Ultimately , it allows the insured to die with dignity and peace . Getting back to the wealthy that do n't need to buy long-term care insurance , guess what ? Many wealthy couples and individuals do . They understand leverage : paying smaller dollars now for larger dollars later , if needed . They also understand that in many situations , premiums for long-term care may be tax-deductible . What about the middle class ? They would have to design their coverage to help offset the cost of long-term care . No matter how much one spends , no long-term care insurance policy can guarantee to cover all possible long-term care expenses . But , the average claim is about 24 - 26 months . Buying a long-term care policy with a pool of money sufficient to cover at least part of those costs would be prudent . Is buying a basic plan for long-term care that would pay only half of one 's long-term care costs be a bad deal ? I do n't think anyone that 's paying $ 400/day for facility care and being reimbursed for $ 200/day would find that of no value .
Short answer : About 8 % Long answer : It 's hard to say exactly how many people own some type of policy that covers paying the costs of long term care - should one qualify for it - because there are many types of insurance policies that are not just `` stand-alone '' long-term care policies , but plans of insurance that include being able to use a percentage of other plan benefits for paying long-term care costs :1 . Stand-alone long-term care insurance covers only long-term care costs . It has no cash value . When a policy owner dies , coverage either lapses or stops paying benefits . It is not transferable . It can not be bought or sold on a secondary market . This type of long-term care insurance is sometimes referred to as `` traditional '' long-term care insurance , as well . It is the type of coverage that is most often associated with the `` percentage of Americans that own their own long-term care insurance '' .2 . Hybrid long-term care contracts consist of having long-term coverage and a life insurance policy that guarantees to at least return the full premium paid into the policy to the insured 's designated beneficiary . Usually , these are single-premium contracts , but some have options to also pay over a specified period of time , such as 5 - or 10-years .3 . Linked life + long-term care policies are basically a traditional permanent life insurance contract -LRB- Whole Life or Universal Life , including the Variable or Indexed type -RRB- . If a person qualifies for long-term care and they have the long-term care rider on their life policy , they may apply to the insurance company to advance or accelerate the face value of the policy -LRB- death benefit -RRB- to pay for the costs of care . There are various limitations on how much can be advanced at a time . If the face value of the life contract is completely advanced for long-term care , there is usually a residual death benefit of $ 5,000 - $ 10,000.4 . The latest addition to life insurance product lines are policies offering `` living benefits '' , one of which is very similar to the linked-life policy . In fact , the only difference is that a medical professional has to state in writing that the insured is not likely to recover from the condition that qualifies for long-term care benefits . -LRB- True long-term care insurance does not require that . -RRB- This type of living benefit is most often referred to as `` chronic care '' or `` extended care '' . Annuities may also have special considerations for paying out portions of the account value for long-term care costs.The point is , people who own life insurance or annuity contracts with long-term care accommodations are not typically included in with the 8 % that own traditional long-term care . So , the real percentage of those that have made some type of insurance purchase to offset long-term care costs is greater than 8 % . I doubt , however , that the total percentage of Americans that own any of the above-described types of policies would exceed 20 % at this time .
Roughly sixty percent of Americans will require long term care services sometime during their lifetime . This is not exclusively a problem for the elderly as younger people can require this type of care some times . This level of care includes a range of services including skilled and custodial care that is provided over a long period of time . These requirements come from chronic sickness or injury , cognitive impairment and physical disability . Hospitals provide acute care . Medical care given over a long period of time for chronic conditions is where the need for long term care arises . Sometimes custodial care is required because the patient has lost the ability to do one of the recognized activities of daily living or instrumental activities of daily living . Most of the long term care given in the US is given by family members . However , there are many situations where family members can not provide necessary care . Professional and non-professionals can provide aid and assistance to these people . This long term care can be given in the home of the patient or in a variety of institutional settings . Long term care can be given in day-care facilities , nursing homes , and assisted living facilities . On average men need more than two years of long term care while women need almost four years on average ? The leading causes for patients requiring long term care are dementia , arthritis , cancer , stroke and nervous conditions . Caring for a patient in a home setting can cost up to $ 150,000 per year . The cost for a nursing home bed is about $ 75,000 per year -LRB- this varies by location . -RRB- There are basically four ways to finance long term care . The family can take the expense out of their own pocket , they can look to government programs -LRB- if they qualify , -RRB- they can use long term care insurance or they can rely upon charity . For a variety of reasons long term care insurance has provided a solution for many people . LTC insurance provides predictability for an otherwise unpredictable risk . It has become such popular coverage and policyholders have been so reluctant to drop their coverage that the benefits have started exceeding the premiums . It is quite popular among wealthy policyholders . Many companies that offered coverage have withdrawn and others have been forced to raise their premiums . This adjustment seems to be complete now . There are various forms of LTC coverage . Policies different widely . It is rather difficult to compare but is worth the effort . When deciding on a policy the first thing to establish is the amount of coverage you want and the period of time you want coverage . The second consideration is how soon after the start of long term care will you want the policy to start paying . This waiting period is computed in several ways so care must be exercised to make sure you are making a fair comparison . Not all policies use the same events to trigger benefits so care should be taken in this area as well . This can be a very technical area so compare your situation with the policy requirements . How a policy pays out will vary according to the policy . Some policies provide for reimbursement of expenses , others use an indemnity form which pays up to a specific limit of expenses incurred on each specific day , and some are on a cash model which pays a maximum benefit regardless of the actual cost of the care that is being given . Long term care insurance is a way to protect assets . The alternatives deplete assets with the government programs requiring a person to be in poverty .
This concept usually comes up in the context of group health insurance so I will assume that is what you are asking about . Wrap plans were developed as a strategy to help employers better manage their health insurance premium costs . The approach generally works like this . Employer XYZ currently has a group health plan with a $ 1000 deductible , 80 % co-insurance and office visit , urgentcare , emergency roomand prescription copayments . Employer XYZ receives a renewal rate increase of 20 % or moreand finds that their renewal is in line with what other insurance companies would offer . So , changing insurance carriers as a means to reduce the impact of the renewal action is not a viable option . Employer XYZ has an alternate renewal from their current carrier that increases the plan 's deductible from $ 1000 to $ 3500 dollars and the renewal rate for the $ 3500 deductible plan then avoids most or all of the renewal rate increase on the $ 1000 deductible plan . This change helps the employer control their costs but shifts much more financial risk onto their employees and the employee 's dependents . The employer wants to manage their fixed premium costs as effectively as possible but is reluctant to shift so much more risk onto their employees . The employer decides to employ a wrap plan strategy . This consists of moving to the insurance plan with the $ 3500 deductible . However , in addition , the employer at the same time implements a Health Reimbursement Arrangement -LRB- HRA -RRB- which is an IRS approved mechanism whereby an employer agrees to reimburse employees for specified medical expenses . The employer agrees that for any covered employee and dependent -LRB- this is a choice the employer makes , reimbursing only the employee and not dependents ' exposure would also be allowed -RRB- who incurs medical expenses subject to the deductible in excess of $ 1000 will be reimbursed by the employer up to whatever level the employer determines . In this example let 's say the employer agrees to cover the full additional $ 2500 of increased deductible expense exposure . From the employee 's perspective their deductible exposure remains at the $ 1000 level they had previously . With so many medical services covered by copayments under their plan design , the employer anticipates that very few of his covered employees and dependents will utilize services subject to the deductible -LRB- these would be hospitalizations and some outpatient services -RRB- and that will alsoexceed the $ 1000 in deductible responsibility the employee has long assumed . The employer makes no financial outlay under the HRA arrangement until an employee or dependent actually incurs an eligible expense . The employer is making an educated bet that their potential reimbursements forclaims above the $ 1000 deductible level will be less , probably substantially less , than the higher premium they would have paid if they had maintained their old plan design with the $ 1000 deductible . Essentially the employer has implemented a limited form of self-funding of some of their employee 's potential medical expenses . Any HRA reimbursements the employer does end up making are a deductible business expense just like their contribution towards their employee 's health insurance premiums . This approach can help the employer better manage their fixed cost for health insurance premiums , gain a cash flow advantage and still offer an attractive benefit package to their employees . As a word of caution , it should be noted that not all insurance carriers are fans of this strategy . The purported reason being that as these arrangements do n't truly change the employee 's financial exposure to the higher deductible it does not have the same impact on employee behavior in consuming health care as they would expect for a plan with a $ 3500 deductible fully paid by the employees . For this reason , some insurance carriers require disclosure of such wrap arrangements and may adjust their premiums somewhat to account for less of a change in health care consumption than their higher deductible quote was originally based upon . An employer should verify their insurance carrier 's position on this approach before they implement such a strategy .
A better question would be `` Who Should n't Buy Long-term Care Insurance '' ? Thats simpler to answer . The following people should NOT buy long term care insurance : 1 . Those that can not afford the premium on even a base policy . 2 . Those that have virtually no assets to pass on to the next generationand will need every available dollar saved for retirement . 3 . Those that will have to work until they die for lack of savings and insufficient Social Security payments or private pension . 4 . Those that can not medically qualify . 5 . Those that are already unable to perform regular daily activities of living without assistance . People in those conditions may qualify for the payment of long-term care through Medicaid -LRB- MediCal in California -RRB- if they come to a point in their life where they need care and ca n't afford it . If the above conditions describe you in any way , you should be sitting down with your adult children or closest relatives and coming up with a plan of action should you be unable to take care of yourself . Everyone else should consider buying some long-term care insurance through an agent or agency that either specializes or has a specialist that is experienced in handling long-term care insurance casework . Having some amount of insurance is better than having none . When one qualifies to receive payments from the insurance company for long-term care , they are usually near the end of their life . The average long-term care claim is approximately 2 - 2.5 years . For those that need care longer than that , virtually all but the most unusual claims are paid out after 5 years . Families with a history of late-life mental illness -LRB- dementia or Alzheimers -RRB- should consider buying a larger pool of money than others , if they can afford it . It is in the best interest of the adult children to help out with long-term care premium payments if the elderly parents can not afford to pay all of the costs . Long-term care is an emotional , psychological , sociological , and family problem as much as it is financial . For the dignity of those who need care and the people or person most likely to be the caregiver , there needs to be a plan of action determined and long-term care insurance should be a part of that plan if it can be afforded and the person is medically qualified . Long-term care insurance is best purchased when young . Premiums can and will go up during the life of the policy if all the bells and whistles are included in the design of the coverage . But , those increases will seem like pocket-change if one needs long-term care . $ 80,000 per year is not unusual for facility care today . 24/7 home care can exceed $ 20,000 per month ! With family help , home care costs can be kept down . But , if facility care is required , there 's not much that can be done about avoiding high costs . Long-term care costs vary by place . The left - and right-hand coasts are the most expensive . Relocation may be necessary to get affordable care in a quality facility .
Yes , many long term care insurance premiums can be deducted on income tax as a medical expense . The plans must be qualified LTCI plans . The Long Term Care Federal Tax Deductible Limits for 2013 are itemized on IRS Revenue Procedure : 2012-41 . These limits are age based . Here are how some of the deductions work . 1 -RRB- Working for someone else : Only the portion of total medical expenses that exceeds your adjusted gross income by 7.5 % can be deducted , using Schedule A on your tax return . If your employer pays the full LTCI premium , your employer may deduct the total expense . 2 -RRB- Self employed : The entire premium of you , spouse and dependents -LRB- up to federal age based limits -RRB- can be deducted on line 29 of tax form 1040 . 3 -RRB- C Corporation : 100 % of premium is deductible for employee , spouse and dependents with no age based limits on premium . 4 -RRB- State income tax deductions and/or credits 5 -RRB- Paying premium with HSA .
Long term care insurance provides benefits that extend beyond those paid under Medicare and most private insurance . The benefit is normally paid in months and at a predetermined level . The extremely helpful insurance is sometimes offered as a benefit by employers . If the employer pays the premium , the employer is able to deduct that cost from his own taxes as a reasonable business expense -LRB- employee benefit . -RRB- The employee does not incur any income tax liability as a result . When a benefit is received it comes to the employee free of income tax . There arent any non-discrimination rules that require an employer cover all of the employees . Executives should consider accepting an Employer Paid Long Term Care Insurance policy in exchange for a salary reduction . It is a win situation for the employer and also a win situation for the highly valued employee . This benefit can be combined with a more comprehensive medical health care plan that includes additional benefits such as a comprehensive annual physical examination . This benefit can also be combined with a supplemental disability benefits program for valuable employees . Employer paid long-term care insurance is often combined with retiree medical insurance . Among employers the trend is to reduce or eliminate retiree medical benefits to the rank and file employees . For highly compensated employee there is a trend towards cost sharing arrangements for medical expenses after retirement .
70 % of people who are 65 years old will need to use some type of long term care in their lifetime . And , as they age the likelihood of needing long term care will increase . The cost for this care is very expensive and it is not covered by conventional health insurance - commercial carriers or Medicare . This is because our health care system is geared to acute care not long term care . According to the 2015 Genworth survey the national average cost for a semi-private room in a nursing home is about $ 80,000 . More , for a private room . Home Health care costs average $ 20/hour . These expense arise when most people are living on a fixed income with little room for added expenses . Especially , unplanned ones . Baby boomers have not been great at planning for retirement . One year of long term care can ruin someone 's retirement plans . This is what happens in many cases ; families deplete their assets and end up qualifying for Medicaid -LRB- aka Welfare -RRB- to pay for long term care expenses . The question people need to ask themselves is when the need for long term care arises , will they have the money to pay for this care ? This is what long term care insurance can do for them . Insurance is the only financial vehicle that promises a specific amount of money at a point in time . There is no other . Even though this can be an expensive premium , depending on the age at which the policy is purchased , compared to the benefits paid , it is worth the outlay for most people . Not only because it will help pay the bills . Long term care insurance policies offer additional benefits that most people are unaware of . Most importantly , all carriers offer optional care management to assist with the difficult decisions about care , choosing facilities and offering discounts on major providers of care . Many times families need someone to discuss options with who is educated about all the options available and is n't emotionally involved with their situation . This is where the care manager can be of tremendous help and the family does not have to go to the expense of hiring a geriatric care manager . The policies will also pay for modifications to be made to the home to keep the person at home rather than moving them to a nursing home .
Not everyone needs long term care insurance . LTCI is not for persons who are struggling to meet their day to day living expenses , rent an apartment , and have little savings and no investments . If such a person needed to go to a nursing home , Medicaid will almost immediately start picking up their tab and they will be fine . Long term care insurance is for those who have substantial assets or income that they do n't want to `` lose '' by paying high long term care costs . Some people are OK with their savings going to long term care expenses , if needed . They figure that is why they saved . Others feel strongly that they want to pass that wealth to heirs to continue a business , care for a disabled adult child , or help grandchildren go to college , among a myriad of other reasons . It is this latter segment of the population that `` needs '' long term care insurance , especially if they are not so very wealthy that paying nursing home expenses for many years would simply dent their resources , rather than deplete them . If they can afford long term care insurance , but would not be able to to pay for long term care services , people who are adamant about choosing the type of care they receive , or persons who are setting up a plan so that their children do n't have to worry about it , also could use long term care insurance . As long as Medicaid is around , no one absolutely needs long term care insurance . But for all the reasons above , many people would consider it a need if they looked at it realistically .
Asset Based Long Term Care provides a unique solution to providing for the expense of long term care while at the same time providing other benefits . Generally , it is provided with a base of life insurance or an annuity . One of the problems with traditional Long Term Care Insurance is affordability . Also the underwriting is very strict . Because Asset Based Long Term Care is underwritten much like a life insurance policy , it is usually easier to qualify . Many traditional Long Term Care policies are use it or lose it , although many policies do have return of premium provisions . With Asset Based Long Term care written with a life insurance chassis , if you do not use the long term care provision , you beneficiaries will receive the death benefit , as in a traditional life insurance policy . If the plan is Annuity based , you receive the interest and tax advantages of an annuity , but the flexibility of utilizing the funds for long term care should you need it . While most of these hybrid products are not as comprehensive as traditional long term care they can be a great alternative depending on the goals and personal situation of the client .
Long Term Health Care Insurance is called , simply , Long Term Care Insurance . It covers the cost of living in a nursing home , assisted living home , or receiving other types of services when the insured person is unable to take care of themselves . Among those who should buy Long Term Care Insurance are those who have many assets and feel strongly that they do not want their assets to go toward paying long term care expenses . People who want to have many choices in how and where they are cared for , should they be unable to care for themselves , are also people who would benefit from Long Term Care insurance , if they can afford it . Finally , persons whose families want the security of knowing that their parents will not rely on them for long term care , if needed , are those who should considering buying Long Term Care insurance .
First of all , there is no federal long-term care program . If a person is or becomes `` indigent '' by state standards , they may qualify to have their long-term care facility expenses paid for by Medicaid -LRB- Medical in CA -RRB- . There is a commission in Washington currently debating if there will be a federal long-term care program , but they will have no power to institute one and it 's doubtful that given our current budget deficit , a comprehensive program could be afforded by either the states or the feds -LRB- Medicaid is a jointly funded and administered medical program for the poor -RRB- . Private long-term care programs at this point in time consist of applying to an insurance company and going through full underwriting to determine insurability . If so , they are issued a long-term care policy of insurance . Only insurance agents that are certified to sell long term care -LRB- most states -RRB- can do so . There is a Partnership long-term care program in 36 states -LRB- plus charter Partnership programs still going in CA , CT , NY , and IN -RRB- . The state departments of health `` partner '' with the person with a Partnership-approved long-term care plan of insurance so that if they blow through the insurance policy maximum benefits and are still alive , the amount of the payout from the insurance company will increase the impoverishment threshold dollar-for-dollar for that person and if the insured 's personal non-exempt assets are lower than what the insurance company has paid out , Medicaid will take over payment of the person 's long-term care costs until s/he dies.Note that there are some limitations1 . The person needs to be in a facility for full payment of costs by Medicaid . -LRB- Home care reimbursement from Medicaid is under $ 300/mo . -RRB- 2 . A lien in the amount of money paid out by Medicaid is levied against the patient 's estate . -LRB- This is currently being debated and is a point of contention with some states and consumer groups . Whether it will actually be done is not certain , but it 's `` on the books '' . -RRB- 3 . While there is a promise that no discrimination will be made between `` Medicaid patients '' and `` paying patients '' in nursing facilities , audits of some facilities have found that there are , in fact , `` Medicaid rooms '' and regular rooms . When discovered , those facilities are supposedly ordered to make no distinction in treatment , care , or placement of patients based on their ability to pay.At this time , it is clear that there is a looming problem of how to take care of the elderly of the boomer generation as that demographic bubble passes through old age . And , though medical technology allows people to live longer , that life is not necessarily better . No solution has yet been proposed at the federal level . The problem will fall to Medicaid for now . Recent surveys have shown that only about 7-8 % of the population owns its own long-term care insurance . Some calculations indicate that Medicaid is solvent for only another 8-10 years as currently administered .
Health insurance paid by an employer for coverage on an employee or the employee ' s dependents is deductible as a normal business expense under IRC Section 162 . Health insurance benefits are not wages and therefore are not subject to wage taxes . For this purpose , the term `` employee '' includes an owner/employee of a C-corporation but does not include owner employees of other types of businesses . Self-employed individuals may deduct 100 % of the cost of health insurance as an `` above the line '' expense on the front page of their Form 1040 . The deduction is available to all qualifying taxpayers , regardless of whether they choose to itemize their other expenses . Direct deductions from gross income are allowed only to the extent of the amount of net self-employment income . Excess amounts , if any , may be deducted of Schedule A as listed in the `` Individuals '' section below . The term `` self-employed person '' for this purpose includes non-salaried owners of S-corporations , LLCs , partners and sole proprietors underIRC Section 162i . WEBSITELINK Except for salaried owner/employees , health insurance paid by a business on behalf of a self-employed person is not a deductible business expense . For example , if an S-corporation that pays for health insurance for its non-salaried owner/employee , this expense is not listed as a business expense on the Form 1120 but rather the deduction flows directly through the Form 1120S to the individual owner ' s Form 1040 . Health insurance for salaried owner/employees is treated the same as regular employees except that an adjustment for self-employment tax is made . Health insurance benefits provided by an employer are not taxable income underIRC section104and105 . This includes amounts paid by the employer to reimburse the employee for the cost of health insurance . Of course , the employee may not `` double-dip '' by deducting the cost of these tax-free benefits on an individual tax return . The cost of health insurance paid by individuals is tax deductible only to the extend that the cost of coverage they paid , in combination with some other specified expenses , is more than 7.5 % of adjusted gross income . For most people , this limitation effectively means that they do not get a tax deduction for the cost of health insurance paid . The cost of health insurance paid by an employer is a deductible personal expense if the amount is included as wages in Box 1 of Form W2 , but this is a relatively rare situation .
The average cost of long-term care insurance depends on a number of factors as the policies are very customizable . If you 're looking for a more basic option , I would estimate a range of around $ 1,800 - $ 2,300 per year in premiums . If you want something more comprehensive , you 're probably looking at something more so in the range of $ 4,000 - $ 6,000 per year . The most comprehensive plans can be $ 7,000 or more per year . Factors such as the person 's age , health , only applying as an individual , applying as a married couple , daily benefit levels , benefit periods , compound inflation options , elimination/waiting periods , and other items will really impact what the cost for a plan will be . In today 's world , there 's a very good chance you will need long-term care at some point in your life . If you were paying for long-term care out of pocket , you can expect to be writing a check for at least $ 40,000 per year - something more specialized like a nursing home , then possibly well over $ 100,000 per year . Unfortunately , not too many people can write that check . While writing a check for several thousand dollars a year in premiums for long-term care coverage can have a bit of sticker shock , it can potentially save you 10 's of thousands of dollars in the future if it happens to you . So the idea of the coverage is to transfer the risk to the insurance company in exchange for a small premium and use their money rather than your own to pay for the expenses if that care is ever needed . The long and short being that the `` average cost '' is an irrelevant figure . It only gives you an idea . The actual cost you can expect to pay depends on your needs and what you want to accomplish with the coverage . From there you can start to compare numbers . I would suggest speaking with an independent insurance agent who works with long-term care insurance products and can compare multiple companies for you . An agent can help you sort through all the zigs and zags of long-term care insurance and help determine what coverage will best serve your needs . If you need help with your coverage , please feel free to call or e-mail me via the contact me button - I have an agent in my group with a strong background in long-term care insurance . I hope the information is helpful - please let me know if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
If you have family history that has reoccurring nursing home care or home care assistance , you may need long term care insurance . If you play the morbidity odds of geriatric living , youll need long term care insurance . If you generated extended care expenses that you can not financially cover , you need long term care insurance . If you play the morbidity odds of geriatric living , youll need long term care insurance . If you generated extended care expenses that you can not financially cover , you need long term care insurance . A male and a female age 60 , nonsmoker and in good health with a full coverage and inflation rider from a quality long term care insurance company will pay around $ 300 a month for the max coverage .
Your question is a common one these days . It may be a subtle distinction but I 'm a firm believer in being clear on our terminology . Many employers and employees think that the Affordable Care Act -LRB- ObamaCare -RRB- legally requires employers to provide health insurance to their employees . This is not the case . In fact , ObamaCare may possibly have the result of reducing the number of employers who provide health insurance for their employees . Only time will tell on this issue . What the Affordable Care Act does is provide a mixture of incentives and penalties to employers regarding their choice as to whether to offer group health insurance to their employees . At the current time you need to subdivide the employer marketplace into three different segments and understand how the law applies to each one in the coming years . 1 -RRB- The small group market -LRB- 2 to 49 employees -RRB- - for companies of this size there is a possible incentive in the form of a tax credit to encourage employers to offer health insurance to their employees . THERE ARE NO TAX PENALTIES FOR EMPLOYERS IN THIS SIZE RANGE WHO DO NOT OFFER GROUP HEALTH INSURANCE TO THEIR EMPLOYEES . As with many aspects of the Affordable Care Act , even the availability and value of the tax credit is confusing and ends up being of little or no value to most small employers . First , the employer will have to purchase group health coverage through the SHOP program of the government health marketplace in their state in order to qualify for the tax credit of 50 % of what the employer contributes towards employee coverage . This may significantly reduce the employer 's options . For instance , here in Tennessee , only one group health insurance carrier has chosen to participate in the SHOP program in 2014 . So your choice is Blue Cross/Blue Shield in that case . The employer may find significantly less expensive group plan options from other insurance companies outside of the SHOP program . Next , the tax credit really only applies to groups of up to 24 employees and actually maxes out for groups with 10 or fewer employees , plus your average workforce wage has to be below $ 50,000 / year . And , the tax credit can only be claimed for two consecutive tax years . For these reasons the tax `` incentives '' provide little real incentive for most small employers to use the SHOP program and the SHOP program has done little to increase competition in most states . 2 -RRB- Groups with 50 to 99 employees - originally groups in this size range were to be subject to the Employer Mandate on January 1 , 2014 . However , the Obama administration delayed implementation of the employer mandate for groups of this size until January 1 , 2016 . So , while there are some issues employers in this size range need to be aware of and planning for , in most ways the status quo remains unchanged for employers in this size range . 3 -RRB- Employers with 100 or more Full Time/Full Time Equivalent employees - for employers who fall into this category the Employer Mandate provision was delayed only until January 1 , 2015 . After that date employers in this size range who offer no health insurance to their employees will be subject to a tax penalty of $ 2000 per employee if at least one of their employees purchases individual health insurance through the government health insurance marketplace and receives a premium tax subsidy . A second tax penalty situation is created for employers who offer health insurance to their employees which is deemed unaffordable under the terms of the Affordable Care Act -LRB- the cost to the employee must exceed 9.5 % of their W2 income -RRB- . In this circumstance the employer is subject to a tax penalty of $ 3000 for each employee who enrolls for individual coverage in the government health insurance marketplace and receives a premium tax subsidy . To make the tax penalties a bit more punitive , they will not be a deductible business expense . At first glance these potential tax penalties might appear to many to be a strong incentive for larger employers to provide health insurance to their employees . But , in practical terms , the tax penalties are often far less expensive than providing group health insurance especially in light of the additional coverage requirements of the Affordable Care Act that are driving health insurance rates up even further . So , no employer has to provide health insurance to their employees . And for larger employers it is simply a decision as to whether to bear the cost of providing group health insurance or paying a tax penalty .
Qualified Long term care insurance is a tax deductible item when applied toward medical expenses . If you are self employed , 100 % of the premium is deductible -LRB- up to age based limits -RRB- . If you are employed and pay your own LTC premium , only the amount that exceeds 7.5 % of your adjusted gross income -LRB- when LTC premiums are added with medical bills and premiums -RRB- is deductible . For employers and members and partners of some corporations , there are additional options for deducting Long Term Care Insurance premiums .
You need long term care insurance when : 1 -RRB- You have substantial assets you want to protect , and insufficient income to pay for your own long term care expenses without depleting them ; 2 -RRB- You have enough income to comfortably pay for long term care insurance premiums and want to provide peace of mind for you and your family for your future ; 3 -RRB- You want to live in a specific place to receive your care and may not be able to do so without being able to pay privately -LRB- with the funds that long term care insurance provides -RRB- ; and/or 4 -RRB- You want to hire a relative to live with you to provide your care if you become unable to care for yourself , and probably would not have the money to do so without long term care benefits . The best age for buying long term care insurance , in my opinion , is between 50-60 years old .
In all honesty , Long Term Care Insurance is not important for everyone . If you have very few assets and low income , you may sacrifice to pay Long Term Care premiums for extended care that may or may not be needed , and that Medicaid could cover if needed . If being able to choose your own place and type of extended care is important to you , then Long Term Care Insurance is a great thing to own even with low assets , as long as you can afford to pay the premiums . Long Term Care Insurance is most important for those who have an estate to protect . If you have saved up to pass an inheritance to your loved ones , or wish to pass a business to a successor , your intentions could be jeopardized if you were to to need care for an extended period of time . Long Term Care can pay that for you and allow your estate to remain untouched .
end question
start question
life-insurance
How To Become A Life Insurance Underwriter ?
To become a Life Insurance Underwriter it is helpful to first earn a Bachelor 's Degree in a business or math related field . If you want to go on to become a Senior Life Underwriter , getting a Master 's Degree will be helpful . Some positions do not require these degrees , but having them can help you get a job and advance in your job . You will need to be certified at some point . The CLU -LRB- Chartered Life Underwriter -RRB- designation from American College consists of passing 8 exams and earning this designation would set you apart as one of the most qualified professionals in the industry . Working in a life insurance home office would also be helpful to gain experience and work your way up to becoming a Life Insurance Underwriter .
Life insurance is a pooled risk plan . That means that a large number of people who can not afford the loss of the death of a person contribute to a pool that reimburses when someone in the pool dies . These pools exist in some fraternal policies . These pools become more sophisticated when they become incorporated and become legal reserve life insurance companies . These companies are regulated by the state insurance commissioner in the state where they are domiciled and the state insurance commissioner in the state where they are admitted . The purpose of this regulation is to assure the public that the admitted life insurance companies doing business in your state have adequate reserves to meet all of the promises that they have made . The insurance company looks to actuarial science . Actuaries pour through death records for hundreds of years and millions of lives . The basic result is the Commissioners Standard Ordinary -LRB- CSO -RRB- tables . These take this huge amount of data and determine in a given year the average number of people -LRB- male , female -RRB- who will die in a given year . Insurance companies compare the CSO data with internal data and from that information develop their own probabilities . The actuaries then determine the amount of money that the company must collect in order to pay death claims at a given age for a given sex . This becomes the standard premium for that age -LRB- plus the cost of administration and acquiring the business and reduced by anticipated earnings on the reserves of the company . -RRB- Because companies have access to more precise information they can carve out the differences for those who smoke or use tobacco products . This becomes the first differentiation in life insurance premiums . The companies also have data derived from smaller numbers that indicate the effect of certain diseases , occupations and habits of the population . This information is passed to the underwriters who determine if the proposed insured meets the definition of a standard risk , and if they do not , why not and to what degree do they vary from the standard risk . The underwriter can lower the premium from the standard premium if the individual falls in a narrow band of height and weight . Often to receive this lower premium the underwriters will require blood and urine analysis to determine the overall health of the individual . Others are offered an increased premium if they have a condition that has proven to reduce life expectancy , or engage in an occupation that is considered hazardous . When the underwriter completes underwriting the applicant is offered a policy . Basically it says that the company will provide so much coverage for such a period of time for a certain amount . The applicant becomes a policyholder when he or she makes the initial payment . There are many other issues involved in determining the premium for a policy but the most important is how long the coverage is to last and at what amount of coverage . At that point the issue is largely mathematics and involves the company being able to meet its obligations , its promises .
To become a Life Insurance Underwriter it is helpful to first earn a Bachelor 's Degree in a business or math related field . If you want to go on to become a Senior Life Underwriter , getting a Master 's Degree will be helpful . Some positions do not require these degrees , but having them can help you get a job and advance in your job . You will need to be certified at some point . The CLU -LRB- Chartered Life Underwriter -RRB- designation from American College consists of passing 8 exams and earning this designation would set you apart as one of the most qualified professionals in the industry . Working in a life insurance home office would also be helpful to gain experience and work your way up to becoming a Life Insurance Underwriter .
How long does it take for life insurance to be in underwriting ? Forever it seems . Depending on the individual it can take anywhere from 4 to 12 weeks or more . Why ? The life insurance underwriting process is really a hurry up and wait process . That is underwriting can be very busy for a day with questions and requests being sent out and then it becomes a wait for the requests to return to the underwriter . The waiting is what adds time to underwriting .
I am so glad you asked this question . Life insurance is an underwriting-driven sale . A well-managed underwriting process will yield both good pricing and good service . This is what you need to keep the client satisfied . The underwriter has the final word . At the same time , the client , the broker , the general agent , the case manager and the underwriter all collaborate in making things happen . In addition , third-parties such as physicians offices , and advisers such as accountants and attorneys and bankers , all have a role to play . Let me give you some examples of how things could work the right way , and also the wrong way . The right way can get you an approval in a matter of weeks . The wrong way can drag it out to months and months and months . First of all , you as the client must go through full disclosure . Answer every question thoroughly and accurately . Make sure you get prequalified so that any underwriting challenges are addressed before you submit a formal application . You might have to clarify elements of your medical history . You might have to give details on risky activities such as mountain climbing a scuba diving . Amendments to physician records may be needed . If all this information is collected up front , then you can benefit in two ways . First of all you can be confident that you have both competitive and reliable quotes . Your application should be approved at the rate quoted . In addition , the underwriting process should run more smoothly because a number of underwriting requirements have already been obtained . If you dont get prequalified , and underwriting challenges are not addressed before hand , then all the time needed to do so will delay the formal underwriting process . It is also important to get the insurance exam completed quickly . Those lab and test results are essential to evaluating the level of risk you present . It may be that your blood chemistry is off the day you take the exam , and that might raise some questions . You might even have to repeat the exam . Or clarification may be needed from your doctor . Better to take care of these items sooner rather than later . The longer you wait in scheduling that exam , the longer the evaluation will take , and the longer it will take to remedy any emerging issues . Medical records are also a dealmaker or a dealbreaker . They too play a huge role in assessing risk . These days many physician offices are short-staffed and overloaded with bureaucratic insurance company and government requirements . They often contract with services to make copies of records . Their turnover of requests for copies of files is often slow . Bear in mind that they are paid in advance and well paid for this service . You as the patient may have to get involved to stress the importance of a faster turnaround . Many times , statements and documents from professional advisors are needed . In one case I have , I obtained a medical approval of great pricing over six months ago . However , copies of trust and buy sell agreement documents are required to get the final approval , and to issue the policies . The attorneys and accountants still havent delivered . General agents play a key role in delivering customer satisfaction . Brokers typically do not deal directly with underwriters - we deal with general agents who operate at the wholesale level . A general agent who has strong leverage with carriers will be able to deliver underwriting concessions . He or she will also be able to intervene as needed and advocate on behalf of the client and broker if snags pop up during underwriting . Things can happen . Sometimes one underwriter will prequalify a case , and another will formally underwrite it . These two may not agree on what the price should be . The general agent needs to stay on top of this and get the dispute resolved as quickly as possible . Case managers are also key . These are personnel inside general agencies who expedite requirements . If they are really on the ball , then the broker is notified promptly of the need for outstanding records , documents , client information , etc. . If they are slack , then requirements are filled too slowly . I think too many agencies just rely on software to give updates . This technology is useful ; at the same time , managers really do need to stay involved personally with cases and move them along . It takes the personal touch . In essence , with the right team approach and cooperation from all involved , then things can happen relatively quickly . The broker needs to treat underwriting as such and provide proper direction . Without this leadership , there is so much room for error that underwriting can become a nightmare .
There are three basic planning goals for life insurance : Indemnification , Income and Inheritance . Indemnification At minimum , seniors have final expense liabilities that they generally dont desire to pass on to their children . Covering those expenses with a final expense life insurance product is a great alternative with a company that offers benevolent geriatric underwriting . Life insurance underwriting is extremely important as you become older , especially if you need more coverage than final expense . A good life insurance company that has sizable retention and death benefit break points can really help keep the price tag down . Retention is the risk the life insurance company is willing to take on without sharing the risk with other life insurance companies . The bigger the retention , the more wiggle room to negotiate the underwriting offer . And death benefit break points can reduce the cost of insurance as you buy more coverage . Break points generally start at $ 250,000 , then $ 500,000 , $ 1,000,000 and $ 3,000,000 . Guaranteed universal life may be the best policy choice . Income Life insurance has the potential to generate tax advantaged income and , if properly designed , may generate tax free income as long as the policy is issued as a non-modified endowment contract and is kept in force for the life of the insured . Some seniors use life insurance tax free income in tandem with their Social Security benefits and defer their qualified plan distributions until age 70 . Its a good planning strategy . Life insurance policies with the least expense loads are the most desirable . Indexed universal life may be the best policy choice . Inheritance Many seniors desire to make a difference with their children , grandchildren and charities . A survivorship policy for married couples is the best solution because in leverages two lives on one contract and pays the death claim at the death of the second insured . Survivorship guaranteed universal life may be the best policy choice for married couples and guaranteed universal life may be the best policy choice for single seniors . We spreadsheet the life insurance companies based on underwriting , product provisions and price , assisting seniors in the decision making process .
The best life insurance for seniors is the company , who offers the most benevolent underwriting for older insureds . As you grow older , your health could become an issue . Favorable underwriting can really make a difference whether you purchase term or permanent life insurance . There are several spreadsheet services that rank the best the best life insurance companies by premium . If any of those are known as benevolent underwriters , you have a good opportunity securing a deal .
In a word , yes . But , it 's more complicated than that . There are three different types of DI insurance and each has its on tax-treatment strategies .1 . Individual disability insurance -LRB- IDI -RRB- - This is what most people are referring to when they use the term `` DI '' . It replaces a percentage of income . It comes in two flavors : long-term and short-term . If the premium is deducted as a health insurance medical expense on a schedule C , the income replacement benefit - should one become disabled - may be taxable as regular income . If it is `` paid-out-of-pocket '' , the income replaced when disabled is not income taxable . The choice should be referred to a qualified tax advisor as insurance agents are not authorized to advise on tax issues . However , I do n't know a CPA that would recommend deducting premiums as a health insurance business expense . If one becomes disabled , they are going to want their benefit checks to be free from income taxes .2 . Business Overhead Expense -LRB- BOE , or simply OE -RRB- - If a business owner or partner becomes disabled , this type of insurance pays for a percentage of fixed business expenses . In my experience , tax advisors will direct that the premiums for this coverage be deducted as a business expense because while that makes the benefits income-taxable , the benefits will immediately pay for business expenses which are deductible . So , it 's a bit of a wash , so to speak .3 . Buy-out disability insurance - This type of DI is most commonly purchased to sever a business relationship of an owner or partner that becomes totally disabled and thereby be a drain on the business without being able to actively produce or grow the company . The amount paid out is a lump sum which can be based on percentage of ownership -LRB- or stock -RRB- and theoretically be placed into a fund that would produce a continuing income to the bought-out owner or partner . Typically , the business owns this policy and pays premium on it . The tax treatment of the premium and payout depends on how the Articles of Incorporation are written or what kind of buy-sell agreement is in place . Both the company attorney and tax advisor need to be in on how the contract is titled and who pays premium at the time of application.It is imperative for the consumer of DI insurance to consult with qualified legal and tax advisors if there is any question at all about how the payment of premiums will be treated and/or the benefits used . The agent may offer an opinion , but it should not be accepted as legal or tax advice .
Which life insurance company is the best ? I think that depends on a few factors . Chief among them are the risk profile you present , and the type of product you want to purchase . At the end of the day , it becomes a question of which will give you the best underwriting . Your risk profile is characterized by the underwriting challenges you pose . I am sure you know that life insurance underwriting covers many factors . These include gender ; nicotine use ; current health ; medical history ; family medical history ; occupation ; avocation ; foreign travel history and plans ; lifestyle with regards to alcohol and drug use ; financial situation ; and criminal , financial , and motor vehicle record . Much to look at . And you know what ? In some way , shape , or form , all these factors can have an impact on your mortality . For most people , one or more of these factors are more operative than the others . Therefore you need to look for a company who will be most competitive in underwriting that particular risk factor . Some companies will be more competitive for diabetics . Some companies will be more competitive for people with a cancer history . Some companies will be more competitive for mountain climbers . Some companies will be more competitive for scuba divers . Some companies will be more competitive for people with a bankruptcy on their record . And on and on and on . It is the job of your broker to direct you to the right company . Also remember that companies tend to specialize in the products they manufacture . Some lean towards cheap term insurance . Others lean towards whole life insurance . Some lean towards guaranteed universal life insurance , while others lean towards interest-based universal life insurance . Once your broker prequalifies you and identifies the company that will give you the lowest cost for your coverage , you can then determine which product they make available that would make the most sense , given the life insurance strategy you want to employ . Important note : given that not every company makes available every type of product , you might have to re-think your choice of product once you find out which company will give you the best underwriting . But that is OK at least you will be getting the most value for your dollar .
I am not sure I am qualified to tell you how to become the best life insurance agent , I do n't even know who that would be . But after 22 years in the business , I can tell you the things you need to become a very good life insurance agent . First and foremost become a student of the industry . Never stop educating yourself and products and regulations . I am not talking about CE credits but carrier trainings and brokerage trainings , this is invaluable to your success . Next learn to be a good resource for people , be a giver not a taker . Learn appropriate networking skills about how to help clients and prospects , not just sell them something , be a problem solver . Sell like a teacher not a salesman . Last , actually learn social media and how to effectively use it to grow your practice . Do n't guess , there is nothing worse than an agent or broker selling all over the place . Be helpful and relevant . I wish you the best of luck with your growth . Feel free to contact me anytime .
Asking a life insurance agent how much life insurance costs is like asking a realtor how much a house costs . Which house ? Which life insurance plan ? There are entirely too many variables to answer that question . First is what is the need for life insurance and is there an insurable interest ? In other words , does someone lose financially or become saddled with your debt at your death ? Next are the underwriting questions to determine an accurate quote . We need your sex , age , build , health status , health history , life style , occupation , net worth , residence , and length of term or type of plan . It can vary over 14 rating classes as to which premium class you qualify for . I suggest using an experienced independent life insurance broker to shop the market to find the best product at the best price for your unique situation .
Im going to answer your question this way : Im going to describe for you the kind of person who buys life insurance and is really glad they did . They are happy with the policy they bought ; they are happy with the process they went through to get that policy ; and they are happy to tell all their friends and neighbors about how happy they are with the purchase :-RRB- . These are the qualities of a happy life insurance shopper : Quality number one : the happy life insurance shopper dares to care . Look , life insurance is not for you , right ? Its for your beneficiaries . And frankly , some people could care less about what happens after they die . I mean , to put it bluntly , they are dead , right ? Isnt that what it comes down to ? But for other people , the difference between being alive and being dead is not that great . I mean , you have spent a lifetime building something of value . Your marriage . Your family . Your business . Charitable causes worthy of your support . All these folks have become dependent on you . If you die , they could lose their economic foundation . But if you have insurance on your life , then they dont have to miss a dime . Life can go on in style for your spouse , your children , your business partners , your employees , and all the needy people that are being helped by the charities you support . If you care about these people , then life insurance can make sure life goes on for them , even when your life does not go on for you . Quality number two : the happy life insurance shopper understands that the time to buy is now . Everyone knows we all die sometime . For most of us , though , death is something that happens to someone else - until it strikes home . Maybe someone close to us gets really sick , or we ourselves have a brush with death that wakes us up . But up to that point , we just dont want to think about it . We also convince ourselves that if we stay in shape , eat right , manage our stress , and maintain a good attitude , we can forestall the inevitable . The fact of the matter is that if we really thought about it , there are a whole slew of hazards that are entirely beyond our control . Heres a few that come to mind : Freak household accidents . Violent crime . Natural disasters . Car crashes . Of course we all say that odds are against any of these happening to us . We even say to ourselves that we can afford to wait and buy a policy next year or the year after , so we can qualify for a better rate . But in the meantime , things can happen . And they do . All the time . Unexpectedly . If your time comes before you have a policy in force , then your beneficiaries lose out . You really cant afford to die until that coverage is in place . Quality number three : the happy life insurance shopper wants a guaranteed return on his or her money . OK . Now you know you need to get coverage in force as soon as possible because you never know when your time will come . The next logical question is : for how long do you keep the coverage in force ? Easy answer : for as long as you live . You know at some point you will have your last day on this earth , so that means you know for sure your beneficiary will get their money when your time comes ... ... as long as the policy is still in force . That means you need permanent coverage . The policy should last as long as you do . Doesnt permanent coverage cost more then term coverage ? Yes . Isnt term good for short-term needs ? Yes . Can you buy term and then purchase permanent when you can afford it ? Yes . Does it make sense to buy term now and then convert to a permanent product ? Yes . The thing is , if you dont take a long-term strategy , then you wont be guaranteed a payout . If you do take a long-term strategy , then you will . Guaranteed by a top-flight financial institution . Quality number four : the happy life insurance shopper knows what hes getting into . When you buy a house , do you expect to write a check for the purchase price agreed on ? Of course you do . Same when you buy a business , book a cruise , and buy a pair of shoes . We even demand that a grocery store clerk honors the price on the shelf if an item has been mislabeled . Life insurance should operate the same way . Hard to believe , isnt it ? All too often , a broker will submit an application on the hope and prayer that the applicant will be approved at the rate quoted . We wont know what the price really will be until you are approved . Yes , right , but if you go through full disclosure on a preliminary basis , you can become confident in what that price will be . The broker has to prequalify you and present carriers with thorough and accurate quote information upfront . They can then commit to a price , contingent upon information obtained in underwriting not contradicting the preliminary disclosures . You can then be sure of what you are buying . If you dont get prequalified , then you cant be sure . Simple as that . Quality number five : the happy life insurance shopper wants to be heard . There are a few companies out there who let consumers call them and buy policies . Thats nice for a tiny percentage of the zillions of men and women who need coverage . The rest of us need personalized service and a guide to walk us through the vast marketplace of potential carriers . Only one or two of them will be the best for us , and that broker has to lead the way to their doorstep . But life insurance distribution can be pretty rigid . The broker usually does not have direct access to the carriers . He or she must work through carrier general agencies who act as wholesalers of their products . So there is you , your broker , his or her general agent , and their carrier . I am sure you have played that telephone game where one person in the line passes down a message , and by the time it reaches the end , its completely different . Its the brokers job to make sure all information about you that is passed along the underwriting channels remains consistent and is fairly assessed . He or she is your advocate , and must be prepared to carry your cause over any and all hurdles that pop up in underwriting . And they do pop up . All the time . If you have been properly prequalified for coverage , then the bottom line is this : you should be approved at the rate quoted unless information arises in underwriting that is substantially different from the information that was disclosed on a preliminary basis . Your broker is your advocate to make sure that happens . In my humble opinion , this is how you buy life insurance . If you follow this path , you will be one happy camper :-RRB-
There are several things to consider when purchasing life insurance . The first is insurable interest . Who stands to lose financially if you died today ? A spouse , children , loved one or even business partner ? Who would be left owing your debt or who depends upon your income ? Once you answer this question , next is how much is needed to satisfy this debt or income replacement ? Now how long would it take to cover this loss ? In other words , how long do you need to repay that debt or how long until your partner or loved one could earn their own income ? Once you have the answers to these questions it will become clear how much life insurance you need and how long do you need to carry it . I recommend using an experienced independent life insurance broker that can shop the market to find you the best coverage at the best price to cover your unique situation .
A life insurance underwriter is the part of the team who assesses the risk of the applicant , and makes a determination of how to rate that policy . But they are also an integral part of the team that keeps life insurance companies financially sound . Being an underwriter is a challenging and important position in any insurance company . Here is a website with a good job description for a life insurance underwriter : www.insurancejobs.com/insurance-underwriters-job-description.htm
There are life insurance policies that can take a very long time to get , and there are policies that can take a very short time to get . The difference is how much is required during underwriting and how fast or slow the people working on your application are moving . While rare , No Exam life insurance exists that can literally be applied for , approved and issued within an hour . Most No Exam life insurance policies take a few days or more , depending on whether they also order medical records , and depending on how fast that particular life insurance company processes their No Exam policies . If the agent or agency you used is nonresponsive , this can also hold things up . Policies that require medical underwriting can take much longer . If you are in good health and utilize a `` quick '' app like many carriers offer , you will often need to do a long phone interview , but this can cut down your chances of the life insurance company ordering medical records . Having to wait on doctor 's offices providing medical records to the insurance carrier is the major cause of extended time during underwriting , so if that step is avoided , the process will go much faster . If your policy does require medical records to be approved -LRB- most policies requiring an exam do require medical records if a health condition exists -RRB- , you can help speed it up by calling your doctor 's office or perhaps even obtaining your medical records yourself . Also , be sure to list on your application ALL the doctors you have seen in the past 5 years , or any physicians that were involved in your diagnosis . Being able to order those from the start , rather than having the underwriter find out about them through reading one set of records and THEN having to order those additional records , can shave weeks to months off of the time it takes to put your policy in effect . Finally , if you are need to take a medical exam , take it as soon as possible . Much of the rest of the process revolves around that , so getting that out of the way quickly could help you have a policy in your hands within one month .
When you are purchasing life insurance , the most important thing to look for is a reliable quote . What is reliable ? It is a rate about which your broker is confident you will be approved . Sounds pretty basic , doesnt it ? And after all , that should be your expectation when you buy anything , shouldnt it ? When you buy a house , a refrigerator , a car , a business , or even a pack of bubblegum , the amount you pay should be the amount that was advertised . The thing is with life insurance , you must be underwritten in order to come up with a real number . And underwriting can be very thorough and comprehensive . It involves current health , medical history , lifestyle , and many other factors . But if you must be underwritten before you know what the price will really be , how reliable can your quote be ? Good question . This means that your broker must pre-underwrite you . Before you submit an application , he or she must obtain all the necessary quote information . If need be , your medical file and other records must be reviewed . This data must be discussed with underwriters who typically are interested in the risk you represent . This all happens , of course , with your authorization . Once this research is completed , you should be provided with quote that represent commitments from underwriters . Not ironclad commitments , mind you you still have to go through formal underwriting . But they should be rates about which all are confident that , barring contradictory information arising in underwriting , you will be approved . Then you will know that it will be worthwhile submitting a formal application .
Another possibility is life insurance that has violated the corridors of risk and has been allowed to become , or was originally intended to be , a Modified Endowment Contract -LRB- MEC -RRB- . The corridor of risk applies usually to universal life insurance type policies and it is the established maximum cash surrender value of the contract as it pertains to the amount of coverage and the age of the insured . The tests prescribed by the IRS limits what remains life insurance and what gets treated as a MEC . Regulations established in the 1980 's limited this risk of abusing life insurance in this way because people discovered that universal life policies could be a great place to stash cash through the payment of excess premium in the flexible universal life policy , of which the IRS did n't like much When a life insurance policy becomes a MEC it is still a life insurance policy for death . Any pre-death distributions , however , cause the policy to be treated more like an annuity and distributions are treated as income first . That limits the use of the funds during the life of the insured . Life insurance treats policy loans as the payment of the basis -LRB- premiums paid in -RRB- first , and this feature is lost when a policy becomes a MEC . In fact , a number of tax-favorable benefits of life insurance are lost . To determine if a life policy has become a MEC , premiums are compared on a 7-pay test that helps establish the amount of premium , after paying 7 level annual premium amounts , that would pay up the policy in the first seven years after the life policy was issued . Being subjected to the 7-pay test or MEC test can occur well after the first seven years if there has been a material change in the policy . However , despite all of the latter , a life insurance policy that is stuffed with cash and violates the 7-pay MEC test down the road , has specific advantages even considering the disadvantages . One of those advantages is having more cash value than the face amount of coverage at death so you should also consider whether this life insurance became a MEC due to some specific financial or estate planning course of action taken by the decedent . Money at death under life insurance made to be a MEC are usually deliberate planning moves to pass cash or benefits of cash beyond the next immediate generation . For example , Grandpa wants to give each grandchild a sizable sum of money but wants to avoid generation skipping taxation . A MEC that pays as a death benefit is a contract paid , rather than money given . Check it out but this is another possibility for life insurance with too much cash value !
With term insurance , you 're getting a lot of `` bang for your buck '' because you 're only buying the coverage for a limited amount of time . There are hundreds of insurance companies in the market that offer term life insurance . One thing you do NOT want to do is just apply to a bunch of companies at the same time . This can often hurt you in your pursuit of coverage because it can be a `` red flag '' to an insurance company -LRB- so-to-speak -RRB- . A critical factor in determining which carrier 's policy is going to work best for you is the risk class they will offer you -LRB- the risk class determines the premiums for your program -RRB- . Each insurance company has their own set of underwriting guidelines so you may not get the same risk class offer from one company as you would from another . Some companies are conservative in their underwriting -LRB- meaning they have stricter underwriting requirements -RRB- and others can be more aggressive -LRB- meaning they have more lenient underwriting -RRB- . For example , company A may offer a given medical history a preferred risk class while company B could easily offer a standard risk class -LRB- requiring much more in premiums for the same coverage -RRB- . I 'd recommend working with an independent life insurance agent/broker . Doing the research on your own can be extremely time consuming and you may not always find the information you 're looking for . Independent brokers have an extensive knowledge of the subject matter and know the differences between products that are available in the marketplace . Brokers can help you through the entire process from start to finish . This includes helping you determine how much coverage is suitable to what you need the coverage for and how long you should have it in place for through an insurance needs analysis , provide quotes from multiple carriers and compare the options with you , track the application while it 's in underwriting and provide assistance on future needs as well .
Life insurance underwriting gives a lot of latitude to the definition of dependent . Its actually pretty interesting . I think this is because the whole principle of insurable interest implies a certain dependency . It is this principle that is the bottom line as to whether or not the company accepts the beneficiary designation on a submitted application . So who really can be dependent on the insured financially , and thereby qualify as a beneficiary on his or her policy ? Certainly a spouse . Does the spouse have to be working ? No . Can the spouse be rich and independently wealthy ? Yes . They still can be considered financially interdependent . Kids ? For sure . Minors ? Of course . How about children that are of legal age ? Well , they certainly could still be financially dependent on their parents . To some extent . -LRB- Until their parents boot them out of the nest :-RRB- Parents ? Yes . That is very common these days . Elder parents become dependent on their grown children financially . Sad to see , but it happens all the time . Other family members ? Could be . How many times do you see a family taking in a niece , nephew , cousin , aunt , or uncle ? Then you have the whole realm of domestic partners . Same sex . Opposite sex . Older man , younger woman . Older woman , younger man . As long as they have some kind of financial independence shared accounts , etc. they could be named as beneficiaries . And we havent even talked about how businesses can be dependent on people , as well as charities . Interesting , dont you think ?
The cost of life insurance can range from a few dollars per month to many thousands per month . The real question is how much would it cost you to get the proper policy for your situation . In order to find that out you need to first determine how much death benefit you need . The best way to calculate how much life insurance you need is by doing a comprehensive needs analysis . If you are looking for a quick rule-of-thumb , we recommend you carry at least ten times your annual income in life insurance . The second factor is how long do you think you will need the coverage . You might want life insurance to cover your mortgage which will be paid off in a certain period of time , or you might want life insurance just until your children are grown and self supporting . Maybe you want to have life insurance for whenever you die , be it next year or when you 're 90 . The third key factor is your budget . You might like the idea of a large permanent life insurance policy , but the premium may simply be more than you can reasonably afford . So in order to determine how much life insurance costs per month , you need to figure out how much life insurance you need , how long you need it and what your budget allows . By going through this process you can determine how much the proper life insurance policy for you will cost .
end question
start question
medicare-insurance
How Long Is Medicare Primary For Esrd ?
Not everyone with ESRD is covered by Medicare , but if you are eligible Medicare will be the primary payer in the following situations . If Medicare is your only health insurance , Medicare is primary . If you have coverage through an employer group health plan , that plan is primary -LRB- if there are 20 or more employees -RRB- during a 30 month COB period . At the end of the COB period Medicare is primary .
Not everyone with ESRD is covered by Medicare , but if you are eligible Medicare will be the primary payer in the following situations . If Medicare is your only health insurance , Medicare is primary . If you have coverage through an employer group health plan , that plan is primary -LRB- if there are 20 or more employees -RRB- during a 30 month COB period . At the end of the COB period Medicare is primary .
In most cases , Medicare is primary and COBRA is secondary . But there are situations where your COBRA plan would be primary . If you are on Medicare as a result of ESRD -LRB- end stage renal disease -RRB- the role is reversed and COBRA is primary , Medicare secondary . You can review the Medicare publication `` Who Pays First '' for more detail .
Dual entitlement for Medicare is when someone qualifies for Medicare based on more than one criteria . E.g. . They have been receiving Medicare due to being disabled over 24 months , then develop qualified End Stage Renal Disease -LRB- ESRD -RRB- . This becomes an issue when there is a Group Health Plan -LRB- GHP -RRB- involved , and they must decide whether Medicare is the primary or secondary payor .
ESRD stands for End-Stage Renal Disease . This represents a complete kidney failure requiring dialysis or a kidney transplant . ESRD is one way that people can qualify for Medicare before they turn 65 . However , many Medicare Supplements and Medicare Advantage plans will not accept patients who have Medicare because of ESRD .
Yes , Medicare will provide coverage for a kidney transplant . Please note , how Medicare pays and how long the coverage will be for can vary based on a number of factors such as if you 're under 65 and on Medicare due to End-Stage Renal Disease -LRB- ESRD -RRB- , if you 're 65 or older and already on Medicare , etc. . There 's a guidebook on Medicare 's website that provides the specific coverage guidelines for each situation regarding kidney treatments called `` Medicare Coverage of Kidney Dialysis & Kidney Transplant Services '' . The link to the page is below : WEBSITELINK You should have both Medicare Part A & Part B in force and I would highly , highly recommend having a Medicare supplement plan to cover the gaps in coverage Part A & Part B do n't cover . In short , your Part A & Part B coverage only covers about 80 % of the expenses . That other 20 % can become a very high dollar amount after all is said and done . I hope the information is helpful - please feel free to contact me for help and if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
Medicare Advantage is a private form of Medicare run by insurance companies . When you enroll in a Medicare Advantage plan you are no longer participating in original Medicare . Your doctor and other providers file claims with your Advantage insurance carrier , not with Medicare . Your Advantage carrier adjudicates the claim and pays it if approved . Advantage plans are not a supplement to Medicare , they replace Medicare . Amplification . Some people are confused about this since Advantage plans are often referred to as Medicare Part C . When you enroll in an Advantage plan your benefits are provided by an insurance carrier that is a sub-contractor of Medicare . Other than your Medicare Part B premium -LRB- which is still paid to Medicare , or deducted from your Social Security check -RRB- premiums -LRB- if any -RRB- for your benefits are paid to the Advantage carrier . Medicare does not review or adjudicate claims . Medicare does not resolve claim disputes you may have with your Advantage carrier . All of your benefits are covered and provided by your Advantage policy . If you decide to drop your Advantage coverage you have a right to switch to original Medicare . Original Medicare and Medicare Advantage are two separate and distinct systems of providing health insurance . Advantage plans cover the same medical conditions as Medicare -LRB- except Advantage carriers will not issue a policy if you have ESRD -RRB- but the benefits and administration are completely separate . Consider this . Medicare Part D is an insured benefit you purchase from an insurance carrier . The drug plans are not offered direct by Medicare and your claims are handled by the insurance carrier or the PBM that manages the coverage for them . Medicare Part C and D are completely independent from Medicare .
Kidney dialysis is a Medicare Part B service . If you have End-Stage Renal Disease -LRB- also known as ESRD -RRB- , Medicare will -LRB- generally -RRB- coverthree dialysis treatments per week . You pay 20 % of the Medicare approved amount , and the Part B deductible applies . This is where your Medigap Plan will help cover some if not all of the remaining costs . Medigap Plan F will pay the remaining 20 % of the Medicare approved amount and the applicable Part B deductible . You pay $ 0 . Medigap Plan G will pay the remaining 20 % of the Medicare approved amount after you have paid/met the applicable Part B deductible . You pay , at most , $ 147 -LRB- Part B deductible in 2014 -RRB- . Medigap Plans A , B , D , M will pay the remaining 20 % of the Medicare approved amount after you have paid/met the applicable Part B deductible . However , you are also responsible for Part B Excess Charges , so you may end up paying more than the Part B deductible -LRB- $ 147 in 2014 -RRB- . Medigap Plan Cwill pay the remaining 20 % of the Medicare approved amount and the applicable Part B deductible ; however , you pay for any Medicare Part B Excess Charges . Medigap Plan Hi-F will pay all Medicare approved amounts after you have met/paid the $ 2,140 deductible -LRB- 2014 -RRB- . Medigap Plan Nwill pay the remaining 20 % of the Medicare approved amount after you have paid/met the applicable Part B deductible -- except for a copay of up to $ 20 for some office visits . You are also responsible for paying Medicare Part B Excess Charges . In regards to Excess Charges , this is what you are charged above the Medicare approved amount if the doctor , provider , or supplier does not accept Assignment . If a provider does not accept Assignment , they are telling Medicare that they do not agree to accept the payment amount Medicare approves for the service -- this is how you can get billed for Part B Excess Charges .
Disabled individuals may qualify for Medicare subject to certain conditions . You must meet the Social Security definition of disability and , in most cases , have received SSDI checks for 2 years . Specific medical conditions , such as ESRD -LRB- end stage renal disease -RRB- may qualify you for immediate Medicare benefits . Medicare Advantage plans will not offer coverage if you have ESRD .
There are 3 ways that you would be eligible for Medicare prior to age 65 . You are receiving disability payments from SSI for 24 months or more . You would qualify if you were receiving Railroad Disability Annuity payments as well but the length of time varies . You have been diagnosed with End Stage Renal Disease -LRB- ESRD -RRB- . The ESRD complication has required dialysis or a kidney transplant . You would need to apply to Medicare and receive SSI benefits . You have been diagnosed with Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis -LRB- AML -RRB- or known as `` Lou Gehrig 's Disease and you are receiving SSI benefits .
Medicare is a federal health insurance program designed to provide coverage for individuals who are age 65 or older - people under 65 can qualify for Medicare as well if they have certain disabilities or have ESRD -LRB- end-stage renal disease -RRB- . Part A and Part B make up `` Original Medicare , '' Part C is called Medicare Advantage , and Part D is called stand-alone prescription drug plans . Many people with Original Medicare also look at buying a Medicare Supplement -LRB- Medigap -RRB- plan to cover the gaps in Original Medicare .
Age 65 is the age at which you are automatically enrolled in Medicare Part A and Part B , if you have worked and paid Medicare taxes long enough to qualify for Medicare , and if you are drawing Social Security at age 65 . If you are not drawing Social Security at that age you must enroll in Medicare . You can qualify at a younger age if you have been receiving SSDI for two years or have ESRD or ALS .
The main way to qualify for Medicare is to be turning 65 year sold . You can complete the application process as early as age 64 and 9 months . Many individuals will qualify for premium-free Part A - you have the option of signing up for Part B as well , however , Part B requires a monthly premium . If you 're under 65 , you may be eligible for Medicare if you 're on disability -LRB- and have been for at least 24 months -RRB- or have end-stage renal disease -LRB- ESRD -RRB- . You can enroll in Medicare Part A -LRB- and Part B as well -RRB- online through the social security administration website , ssa.gov . Part A & Part B are referred to as Original Medicare . Original Medicare covers approximately 80 % of expenses and both parts feature a deductible that you 're resopnsible for paying -LRB- in addition to the other 20 % of remaining expenses -RRB- . I would recommend adding a Medicare supplement -LRB- Medigap -RRB- plan to cover the other expenses - these are sold through private insurance companies . Plan F is the most comprehensive , but if your doctor accepts Medicare and assignment , you may want to look at a plan N as well . The major advantage of adding a Medigap plan when you sign up for Medicare Part B is that you have a 6-month open enrollment period where you ca n't be turned down for a plan -LRB- no medical underwriting -RRB- and it helps create a predictable expense structure for your health care .
Qualifying for Medicare , in general , is a pretty simple and straight-forward process - the most common way people qualify is by turning age 65 . You can complete the application process as early as age 64 and 9 months . Many individuals will qualify for premium-free Part A - you have the option of signing up for Part B as well , however , Part B requires a monthly premium . If you 're under 65 , you may be eligible for Medicare if you 're on disability -LRB- and have been for at least 24 months -RRB- or have end-stage renal disease -LRB- ESRD -RRB- . You can enroll in Medicare Part A -LRB- and Part B as well -RRB- online through the social security administration website , ssa.gov , or at your local social security administration office . Part A & Part B are referred to as Original Medicare . Original Medicare covers approximately 80 % of expenses and both parts feature a deductible that you 're resopnsible for paying -LRB- in addition to the other 20 % of remaining expenses -RRB- . I would recommend adding a Medicare supplement -LRB- Medigap -RRB- plan to cover the other expenses - these are sold through private insurance companies . Plan F is the most comprehensive , but if your doctor accepts Medicare and assignment , you may want to look at a plan N as well . The major advantage of adding a Medigap plan when you sign up for Medicare Part B is that you have a 6-month open enrollment period where you ca n't be turned down for a plan -LRB- no medical underwriting -RRB- and it helps create a predictable expense structure for your health care . You may also want to look into adding a Medicare Part D prescription drug plan as well if you would like to have your coverage for prescriptions as well .
You can indeed qualify for Medicare at age 62 ... as long as you are totally and permanently disabled under Social Security rules . If you have been disabled and on SSDI for 2 years you qualify for Medicare . If you have ESRD or ALS you can also qualify for SSDI and Medicare at age 62
If you have paid Social Security taxes for at least 10 years , or are married to someone over age 64 who paid SS taxes that long , and if you are age 65 , you qualify for Medicare in Wyoming and all 50 states . Your Part A will be free . If you do not qualify based on that criteria but are a US citizen , you can pay a premium for Medicare Part A . You can also qualify for Medicare if you have ESRD or ALS or have been on Social Security Disability for two years . Contact Medicare.gov for specifics .
If you 're not turning at least age 65 , you can only go on Medicare if you 're disabled or have ESRD -LRB- end-stage renal disease -RRB- and meet the under 65 Medicare qualifications . If you 're under 65 and qualify for Medicare Parts A & B , I would suggest looking into securing a Medicare supplement and Part D prescription drug plan or a Medicare Advantage plan . I hope the information is helpful - please feel free to contact me for assistance with your coverage and if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
You are eligible for Medigap coverage if you have both Medicare Part A & Medicare Part B active . When you first enroll in Part B , you trigger a 6-month initial open enrollment period to buy a Medigap plan -LRB- also known as Medicare Supplement plans -RRB- with NO MEDICAL UNDERWRITING . This is the BEST time to buy a supplement plan because regardless of your medical history , you can buy any Medigap plan from any carrier and can not be declined . Plans F and G offer the most comprehensive coverage and therefore the most predictable expense structure - a major benefit for individuals on a fixed income . Please note , Medigap plans are standardized so the difference between carriers is price - plan F is the exact same plan F from every insurance company . Beyond this window , you 'll be subject to answering health questions to qualify for a new plan -LRB- every carriers ' questions are different -RRB- if you do n't have a guaranteed-issue right available to you . If you 're under 65 , you can still purchase a Medigap plan if you 're on Medicare for disability or ESRD , but the cost will be very high . Medigap plans are designed to be purchased by individuals age 65 and up . Under age 65 individuals on Medicare will likely either buy a Medicare Advantage plan or stay under original Medicare -LRB- Parts A & B -RRB- and add a stand-alone Part D plan for their prescription drug coverage . I hope the information is helpful - please feel free to contact me for help with your coverage and if you have any other questions . Thanks very much .
There are several ways to qualify for Medicare . The most obvious is to reach age 65 and have worked ten years during which you paid the Medicare tax . You must reside in the United States or its territories . You can also qualify for Medicare if you are disabled and receiving benefits under Social Security or the Railroad Retirement Board . You can also qualify if you have End Stage Renal Disease -LRB- ESRD -RRB- or Lou Gehrigs disease ALS . If you 're getting disability income from Social Security or the Railroad Retirement Board -LRB- RRB -RRB- , youre eligible for Medicare Part A -LRB- Hospital Insurance -RRB- and Part B -LRB- Medical Insurance -RRB- starting the 25th month you get the benefits . In those cases your enrollment will be automatic . There are exceptions which may apply to you and you should consult with Medicare about your situation . There isnt coverage if you are outside the USA or are in jail or prison .
Smokers are not denied access to Medicare . Using tobacco does not affect your Medicare eligibility or change the rates you pay for Original Medicare -LRB- Parts A & B -RRB- . Eligibility for Medicare is based on age -LRB- unless qualifying due to disability or ESRD -RRB- . Using tobacco products can increase premiums for supplemental benefits -LRB- e.g. Medigap plans -RRB- if you 're being medically underwritten , but not typically a major increase . Please feel free to contact me for further assistance . Thanks very much .
end question
